)_

STEPHEN: Aha! I know you, gammer! Hamlet, revenge! The old sow that
eats her farrow!

OLD GUMMY GRANNY: _(Rocking to and fro. No-one about. Fff. Cissy Caffrey played with
baby Boardman till he crowed with glee, clapping baby hands in air. But it would be in the paper. So I carried the boat of incense then at Clongowes. Nothing on there. And I’ll write to
you. Even to sit
where a woman has sat, especially with divaricated thighs, as though to
grant the last favours, most especially with previously well uplifted
white sateen coatpans. —The plot thickens, John Eglinton said. The cabby read out of the paper he had got hold of that the former
viceroy, earl Cadogan, had presided at the cabdrivers’ association
dinner in London somewhere. Victoria and Albert. Says that over
everybody. His nag on spavined whitegaitered
feet jogs along the rocky road. Pyrrhus, misled by an oracle, made a last attempt to retrieve
the fortunes of Greece. Gob,
he’d have a soft hand under a hen. Enjoyed her holidays?

—Tiptop. —_Charmed my eye_. Ayes have it. Talking about hanging,
I’ll show you something you never saw. The
venerable president of the noble order was in the chair and the
attendance was of large dimensions. —Ay do, Ben, Mr Dedalus said. Sir Thomas Deane designed. —O, ask me, sir. One and
eightpence too much. Feathered his nest well anyhow. —. Loyal to the highest constituted power in the land, actuated
by an innate love of rectitude his aims would be the strict maintenance
of public order, the repression of many abuses though not of all
simultaneously (every measure of reform or retrenchment being a
preliminary solution to be contained by fluxion in the final solution),
the upholding of the letter of the law (common, statute and law
merchant) against all traversers in covin and trespassers acting in
contravention of bylaws and regulations, all resuscitators (by trespass
and petty larceny of kindlings) of venville rights, obsolete by
desuetude, all orotund instigators of international persecution, all
perpetuators of international animosities, all menial molestors of
domestic conviviality, all recalcitrant violators of domestic
connubiality. My father’s a
bird, he lapped the sweet _lait chaud_ with pink young tongue, plump
bunny’s face. —It’s Stephen, sir. —Come, Ned, Mr Dedalus said, putting on his hat. I suppose all my books are gone. Have that in your nose in the dark, whiff of stale boose. No. )_
Get him away, you. _(Hoarsely. Was the proposal of asylum accepted?

Promptly, inexplicably, with amicability, gratefully it was declined. These factors, he alleged, and the revolting spectacles
offered by our streets, hideous publicity posters, religious ministers
of all denominations, mutilated soldiers and sailors, exposed scorbutic
cardrivers, the suspended carcases of dead animals, paranoic bachelors
and unfructified duennas—these, he said, were accountable for any and
every fallingoff in the calibre of the race. _




[ 12 ]


I was just passing the time of day with old Troy of the D. _
Dittoh. stands upright amid
phoenix flames. The figure seated on a large boulder at the foot of a round tower was
that of a broadshouldered deepchested stronglimbed frankeyed redhaired
freelyfreckled shaggybearded widemouthed largenosed longheaded
deepvoiced barekneed brawnyhanded hairylegged ruddyfaced sinewyarmed
hero. )_ Listen. Buck Mulligan peeped an instant under the mirror and then covered the
bowl smartly. BELLO: Well, I’m not. Their
deadly coil they grasp: yea, and therein they lead to Erebus whatsoever
wight hath done a deed of blood for I will on nowise suffer it even so
saith the Lord. Milly. Nerves overstrung. Slander, the viper, has wrongfully accused me. who were conspicuous, needless to say, by
their total absence (to say nothing of M’Intosh) L. It was the purest
thrift. Hurroo! Collar the leather, youngun. Might manage a sketch. —Haines missed you, he said. You had to laugh at her sometimes. Mistake of nature. —We’ll owe twopence, he said. _(He winks
at his audience. J. To inaugurate a
series of static, semistatic and peripatetic intellectual dialogues,
places the residence of both speakers (if both speakers were resident
in the same place), the _Ship_ hotel and tavern, 6 Lower Abbey street
(W. I didn’t hear it. Begob he was what you might call flabbergasted. Misters very selects for is pleasure must to visit heaven
and hell show with mortuary candles and they tears silver which occur
every night. With this came up Lenehan to the feet of the table to say how the
letter was in that night’s gazette and he made a show to find it about
him (for he swore with an oath that he had been at pains about it) but
on Stephen’s persuasion he gave over the search and was bidden to sit
near by which he did mighty brisk. Ten to. Sees me, does she? Looks a fright in the day. Envy?

Of a bodily and mental male organism specially adapted for the
superincumbent posture of energetic human copulation and energetic
piston and cylinder movement necessary for the complete satisfaction of
a constant but not acute concupiscence resident in a bodily and mental
female organism, passive but not obtuse. Whistles call and
answer. Synge has promised me an article for _Dana_ too. A bit nervy. What caused him consolation in his sitting posture?

The candour, nudity, pose, tranquility, youth, grace, sex, counsel of a
statue erect in the centre of the table, an image of Narcissus
purchased by auction from P. More like ’tis the hoose or the timber tongue. —That’s too bad, says Bloom. _(The brass quoits of a bed are heard to jingle. Hold to the now, the here, through
which all future plunges to the past. Katey went to the range and peered with squinting eyes. BLOOM: _(Shakes hands with both of the watch in turn. Fellow sharpening knife and fork to eat all
before him, old chap picking his tootles. And when the first note. But he adds: in bodies. Why might these several provisional contingencies between a guest and a
hostess not necessarily preclude or be precluded by a permanent
eventuality of reconciliatory union between a schoolfellow and a jew’s
daughter?

Because the way to daughter led through mother, the way to mother
through daughter. Wine in my face. Myles Crawford crammed the sheets into a sidepocket. That’s right. Stephen sketched a brief gesture. )_ Namine. What though? Cigary gloves long
John had on his desk the other day. —O, responded Gerty, quick as lightning, laughing, and the proud head
flashed up. Better luck next time. Outside the Dublin
Distillers Company’s stores an outside car without fare or jarvey
stood, the reins knotted to the wheel. One meal and a collation for
fear he’d collapse on the altar. Bronze, listening, by the beerpull gazed far away. Out here in the dark
with a man I don’t know raving and moaning to himself about shooting a
black panther. Only man buries. P. And far on Kish bank the
anchored lightship twinkled, winked at Mr Bloom. One third of a pint of quassia to which
add a tablespoonful of rocksalt. Bad times those were. Here goes. _

—Trenchant, Mr Power said laughing. I wouldn’t mind. Brutal, why not? Try it anyhow. His tangled hair and scraggy neck gave witness of unreadiness
and through his misty glasses weak eyes looked up pleading. By prodding a prong of
the fork under the kidney he detached it and turned it turtle on its
back. A. As?

Eeltraps, lobsterpots, fishingrods, hatchet, steelyard, grindstone,
clodcrusher, swatheturner, carriagesack, telescope ladder, 10 tooth
rake, washing clogs, haytedder, tumbling rake, billhook, paintpot,
brush, hoe and so on. )_ That’s all right. IGS. Chips, picking chips off rocky thumbnail, chips. Dost love, Miriam? Dost
love thy man?

—That may be too, Stephen said. You pay eighty marks and they plant a dunam of land for you with
olives, oranges, almonds or citrons. Loth to irk in Horne’s hall hat holding the seeker stood. Pray for the repose of the soul of. The
lewd suggestions of some faded beauty may console him for a consort
neglected and debauched but this new exponent of morals and healer of
ills is at his best an exotic tree which, when rooted in its native
orient, throve and flourished and was abundant in balm but,
transplanted to a clime more temperate, its roots have lost their
quondam vigour while the stuff that comes away from it is stagnant,
acid and inoperative. That’s good news. Father
Conmee saluted Mr William Gallagher and perceived the odours that came
from baconflitches and ample cools of butter. Denis and S. Ah!

ZOE AND FLORRY: _(Laugh together. Dry. —Yes, sir. The weapon used. —Where is he? says Lenehan. But
even a dog, he reflected, take that mongrel in Barney Kiernan’s, of the
same size, would be a holy horror to face. Molly too. Clever of nature. She might like something tasty. When is
it? May the twentysecond. Again. ZOE: _(Fanning herself with the grate fan. He
doesn’t see my mourning. Give him the key too. Pardon? Seen him today at a runefal? Chum o’ yourn passed
in his checks? Ludamassy! Pore piccaninnies! Thou’ll no be telling me
thot, Pold veg! Did ums blubble bigsplash crytears cos fren Padney was
took off in black bag? Of all de darkies Massa Pat was verra best. Watch!

—He has enough of them, she said. Never looked. Short snooze now if I had. He climbed over the sedge
and eely oarweeds and sat on a stool of rock, resting his ashplant in a
grike. _(He twitches. Because their wombs. For what we
have already received may the Lord make us. Secret of all secrets. J. A. Right, Pat. —You’re very funny, Dilly said, grinning. Tumble her. Beware of imitations. it is no use Leopold to be. Has no-one made him out to be
an Irishman? Judge Barton, I believe, is searching for some clues. O,
Bloom has his good points. _ He wants to see the files of the
_Kilkenny People_ for last year. —I feel you would need one more for _Hamlet. —_Ci rifletterò,_ Stephen said, glancing down the solid trouserleg. Thunderation!
Keep the durned millingtary step. Why? I noticed he had a good rich smell off his breath dancing. —Seems a long way off, Haines said, thoughtfully lifting his spoon. Thing like that spoils the effect of a night for her. Our. O’Molloy shook his head. And no more turn aside and brood. Make a stump speech out of it. Nothing was said. nux vom. Fried everything in the best butter all the
same. While the postmistress searched a pigeonhole he gazed at the recruiting
poster with soldiers of all arms on parade: and held the tip of his
baton against his nostrils, smelling freshprinted rag paper. Influential friends. Mr Bloom
glanced about him and then stood up, looking over the risen hats. You can make bacon of
that. Who gave it to you?

Mr Bloom on his way out raised three fingers in greeting. And entering he
blessed the viands and the beverages and the company of all the blessed
answered his prayers. Right, sir. I wanted to tell you. True as you’re there. In what manners did she reciprocate?

She remembered: on the 27th anniversary of his birth she presented to
him a breakfast moustachecup of imitation Crown Derby porcelain ware. )_

TOM AND SAM:

     There’s someone in the house with Dina
     There’s someone in the house, I know,
     There’s someone in the house with Dina
     Playing on the old banjo. Henry dear, do not deny my request before my patience are
exhausted. The body
feels the atmosphere. Now if they had made it
round like a wheel. He drank resignedly from his tumbler, running his fingers down the
flutes. Better be shoving along. Have you good artists?

—Louis Werner is touring her, Mr Bloom said. O’Molloy’s towards
Stephen’s face and then bent at once to the ground, seeking. G. Egg two evidently demolished, he nodded and winked, adding
bloodthirstily:

_—Buffalo Bill shoots to kill,

Never missed nor he never will. )_ Most of us thought
as much. After them march the guilds and
trades and trainbands with flying colours: coopers, bird fanciers,
millwrights, newspaper canvassers, law scriveners, masseurs, vintners,
trussmakers, chimneysweeps, lard refiners, tabinet and poplin weavers,
farriers, Italian warehousemen, church decorators, bootjack
manufacturers, undertakers, silk mercers, lapidaries, salesmasters,
corkcutters, assessors of fire losses, dyers and cleaners, export
bottlers, fellmongers, ticketwriters, heraldic seal engravers, horse
repository hands, bullion brokers, cricket and archery outfitters,
riddlemakers, egg and potato factors, hosiers and glovers, plumbing
contractors. There’s a word I wanted to
ask you. Mr Bloom stood far back, his hat in his hand, counting the bared heads. Saw her in the viceregal party when
Stubbs the park ranger got me in with Whelan of the _Express. Let me see. Every phase of the situation was
successively eviscerated: the prenatal repugnance of uterine brothers,
the Caesarean section, posthumity with respect to the father and, that
rarer form, with respect to the mother, the fratricidal case known as
the Childs Murder and rendered memorable by the impassioned plea of Mr
Advocate Bushe which secured the acquittal of the wrongfully accused,
the rights of primogeniture and king’s bounty touching twins and
triplets, miscarriages and infanticides, simulated or dissimulated, the
acardiac _foetus in foetu_ and aprosopia due to a congestion, the
agnathia of certain chinless Chinamen (cited by Mr Candidate Mulligan)
in consequence of defective reunion of the maxillary knobs along the
medial line so that (as he said) one ear could hear what the other
spoke, the benefits of anesthesia or twilight sleep, the prolongation
of labour pains in advanced gravidancy by reason of pressure on the
vein, the premature relentment of the amniotic fluid (as exemplified in
the actual case) with consequent peril of sepsis to the matrix,
artificial insemination by means of syringes, involution of the womb
consequent upon the menopause, the problem of the perpetration of the
species in the case of females impregnated by delinquent rape, that
distressing manner of delivery called by the Brandenburghers
_Sturzgeburt,_ the recorded instances of multiseminal, twikindled and
monstrous births conceived during the catamenic period or of
consanguineous parents—in a word all the cases of human nativity which
Aristotle has classified in his masterpiece with chromolithographic
illustrations. —Greetings from the famous son of a famous father. CORNY KELLEHER: Good night, men. Living all the day among herbs, ointments, disinfectants. s. Obligated awful. —By God, she had some luxurious operacloaks and things there. )_ Wheatenmeal with lycopodium and syllabax. Stamps: stickyback
pictures. Where? Lenehan cried, running to the window. Queer
idea of Dublin he must have, tapping his way round by the stones. )_ Hamlet, I am thy father’s gimlet! _(She takes his
hand. Just what you say. _Basta!_ I will see if I
can see. Where’s that bleeding awfur? Parson
Steve, apostates’ creed! No, no, Mulligan! Abaft there! Shove ahead. Mother
Shipton’s prophecy that is about ships around they fly in the
twinkling. Ned Lambert is taking a day off I see. _

Latin again. —The best death, Mr Bloom said. Tell Pat
you saw me, won’t you? I wanted to get poor Pat a job one time. )_ Sure they wanted me to join in with the
mots. ; the very rev. —There are some like that, Davy Byrne said. —Bergan, says Bob Doran, waking up. Ay, says another,
and so pampered was he that he would suffer nought to grow in all the
land but green grass for himself (for that was the only colour to his
mind) and there was a board put up on a hillock in the middle of the
island with a printed notice, saying: By the Lord Harry, Green is the
grass that grows on the ground. The men cheer. Rtststr! A rattle of pebbles. Built on bread and onions. ZOE: What day were you born?

STEPHEN: Thursday. You mean that knockkneed mother’s darling
who seems to be slightly crawsick? Jousts. in which everyone can find his own. About us gobblers fork spiced beans down their gullets. Myles, one moment. God
made food, the devil the cooks. Rather upsets a man’s day, a funeral does. Then he starts all confused mucking it up about mortgagor under the act
like the lord chancellor giving it out on the bench and for the benefit
of the wife and that a trust is created but on the other hand that
Dignam owed Bridgeman the money and if now the wife or the widow
contested the mortgagee’s right till he near had the head of me addled
with his mortgagor under the act. His reason for so doing was he recognised on the moment round
the door the same face he had caught a fleeting glimpse of that
afternoon on Ormond quay, the partially idiotic female, namely, of the
lane who knew the lady in the brown costume does be with you (Mrs B. Madam, excuse me. Knife and fork
chained to the table. , F. The lacquey rang his bell behind their backs. J. Petticoats for Molly. But the cream
of the joke was nothing would get it out of Corley’s head that he was
living in affluence and hadn’t a thing to do but hand out the needful. Something with a bite
in it. Maher, S. _(He waves his hand. You ask
for Carr. One body. El, yes: house of: Aleph,
Beth. One fine day it gets bunged up: and there you are. Kind of a general all
round over me and half down my back. Chap in the Burton today
spitting back gumchewed gristle. One moment
he had been there, fascinated by a loveliness that made him gaze, and
the next moment it was the quiet gravefaced gentleman, selfcontrol
expressed in every line of his distinguishedlooking figure. How sweet the answer. Is he buried in saint Michan’s? Or no, there was a midnight
burial in Glasnevin. Last in a drizzle of rain
on a brokenwinded isabelle nag, Cock of the North, the favourite, honey
cap, green jacket, orange sleeves, Garrett Deasy up, gripping the
reins, a hockeystick at the ready. Look at here. I’m warm, dark,
open. On the stage,
modern or Shakespearean: exemplars, Charles Wyndham, high comedian,
Osmond Tearle († 1901), exponent of Shakespeare. BLOOM: There is a memory attached to it. But this was
only to dye his desperation as cowed he crouched in Horne’s hall. I mean wouldn’t
it be the same here if you put force against force?

Didn’t I tell you? As true as I’m drinking this porter if he was at his
last gasp he’d try to downface you that dying was living. Well worth the half sovereign I gave Neary for it. —Did you? Hynes asked. Got my own back there. Mr Bloom, glancing sideways up from the cross he had made, saw the
foreman’s sallow face, think he has a touch of jaundice, and beyond the
obedient reels feeding in huge webs of paper. Convivial evenings. Go easy. Shades of night hovering here with all the dead stretched about. Bold hand. —I heard you were round, said Blazes Boylan. )_ Good, by the rumping jumping general! That’s the
best bit of news I heard these six weeks. —Eight plums a penny! Eight for a penny!

—We had better look a little serious, Martin Cunningham said. _Un coche ensablé_ Louis Veuillot
called Gautier’s prose. Come along now. Following the pointing of her finger he took up a leg of her soiled
drawers from the bed. I met him one day in the south city markets buying
a tin of Neave’s food six weeks before the wife was delivered. But he, the young chief of the O’Bergan’s, could ill brook to be
outdone in generous deeds but gave therefor with gracious gesture a
testoon of costliest bronze. )_ Aum! Hek! Wal! Ak! Lub!
Mor! Ma! White yoghin of the gods. Silver threads among the grey. Rift in the
lute I think. _(He coughs encouragingly. Mr Magee, sir, there’s a
gentleman to see you. Met him pike hoses. BLOOM: _(Bravely. —Mr Deasy told me to write them out all again, he said, and show them
to you, sir. After
completion of laconic epistolary compositions she abandoned the
implement of calligraphy in the encaustic pigment, exposed to the
corrosive action of copperas, green vitriol and nutgall. Respectable woman. So begob the citizen claps his paw on his knee and he says:

—Foreign wars is the cause of it. How will
you pun? You punish me? Crooked skirt swinging, whack by. He’s a professor. Bald spot behind. —Do you think it is only a paradox? the quaker librarian was asking. _(He
breathes softly. Made him
feel a bit peckish. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. )_ Retain your own. ) regarding the future
determination of sex. THE LOITERERS: Jays, that’s a good one. Humour her till it’s over. )_ Dear old
friends! _(He plays pussy fourcorners with ragged boys and girls. STEPHEN: In his trinity of black Wills, the villain shakebags, Iago,
Richard Crookback, Edmund in _King Lear_, two bear the wicked uncles’
names. )_ Allow me. My soul walks with me, form of forms. )_ Is he bleeding!

A MAN: _(Rising from his knees. Three pounds, thirteen and six. Nosey Flynn stooped towards the lever, snuffling at it. Us too: the tie he wore, his lovely socks and
turnedup trousers. Nous ferons de petites
cochonneries. In point of fact I have to go down to the
county Clare on some private business. There’s a touch of the artist
about old Bloom. —Finished? Myles Crawford said. See. )_ Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. In vain! His spectre stalks me. But she, the giglot wanton, did not break a
bedvow. They looked from Trinity to the blind columned porch of
the bank of Ireland where pigeons roocoocooed. She is the bride of darkness, a daughter of night. His Excellency the lord lieutenant. Where’s Monks?

—Monks!

Mr Bloom took up his cutting. )_

LENEHAN: Plagiarist! Down with Bloom!

THE VEILED SIBYL: _(Enthusiastically. Or all start scratch then get out
of step. It was idyllic: and Father Conmee reflected on the providence of
the Creator who had made turf to be in bogs whence men might dig it out
and bring it to town and hamlet to make fires in the houses of poor
people. _—Compos_ your eye! says Alf, laughing. Virag is going to
talk about amputation. He smiled, pouring. —Talking about violent exercise, says Alf, were you at that
Keogh-Bennett match?

—No, says Joe. —Well, Joe, says I, your very good health and song. Save her. Experienced hand. His boots are spoiling the shape of my
feet. )_ Which side is your knowledge bump?

THE CAP: _(With saturnine spleen. He handed one to the boy. I. And they said farther she should live because in the beginning,
they said, the woman should bring forth in pain and wherefore they that
were of this imagination affirmed how young Madden had said truth for
he had conscience to let her die. Mr Bloom could easily picture his advent on this scene, the homecoming
to the mariner’s roadside shieling after having diddled Davy Jones, a
rainy night with a blind moon. Trieste-Zurich-Paris

1914-1921




*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ULYSSES ***

***** This file should be named 4300-0. I’ll catch him. Stand
up at the gospel of course. I felt it was expected of me. Opening her handbag, chipped leather. _

Are you condemned to do this?

—They are sundered by a bodily shame so steadfast that the criminal
annals of the world, stained with all other incests and bestialities,
hardly record its breach. Ah. Assumed dongiovannism will
not save him. She scribbled three figures on an envelope. I. And she said to Gerty:

—A penny for your thoughts. Let her speak. —No, says Martin, we’re ready. He slipped card and letter into his sidepocket,
reviewing again the soldiers on parade. Only, you know, sensation. )_ Come somewhere
and we’ll. He saw the priest stow the communion cup away, well in, and kneel an
instant before it, showing a large grey bootsole from under the lace
affair he had on. Item: was Hamlet
mad? The quaker’s pate godlily with a priesteen in booktalk. Touch
him for a quid, will you? A guinea, I mean. The blue fuse burns deadly between hands and burns clear. _Hand in hand_. A nymph
immortal, beauty, the bride of Noman. He fingered shreds of hair, her maidenhair, her mermaid’s, into
the bowl. No more letters, I hope. Maud Gonne, beautiful woman, _La Patrie_, M. ,_ 30 minims. Has her roses probably. A blade of grass, shell of her hands, then blow. Bristow, at Whitehall lane, London:
Carr, Stoke Newington, of gastritis and heart disease: Cockburn, at the
Moat house, Chepstow. Simply absconded somewhere. Somewhere to someone in your flutiest voice. The foreman turned round to hear patiently and, lifting an elbow, began
to scratch slowly in the armpit of his alpaca jacket. It’s in the silence after you
feel you hear. Waste of time. Who’s riding her?

—O. —Good day, Jack. )_ I was just
chatting this afternoon at the viceregal lodge to my old pals, sir
Robert and lady Ball, astronomer royal, at the levee. My literary agent Mr J. I am almosting it. Stephen touched the edges of the book. A hoard heaped by the roadside: plundered and passing on. Alfred and
S. Damned Irish language,
language of our forefathers. SECOND WATCH: _(Blesses himself. Lockjaw. Mosenthal. Music did that. They were driven out of house and home in the
black 47. God! How beautiful now
across the mist of years! But their children are grouped in her
imagination about the bedside, hers and his, Charley, Mary Alice,
Frederick Albert (if he had lived), Mamy, Budgy (Victoria Frances),
Tom, Violet Constance Louisa, darling little Bobsy (called after our
famous hero of the South African war, lord Bobs of Waterford and
Candahar) and now this last pledge of their union, a Purefoy if ever
there was one, with the true Purefoy nose. _(Tears of molten
butter fall from his eyes on to the scone. Please write me a long letter and tell
me more. —I heard So and So made a cool hundred quid over it, says Alf. Dress up
and look and suggest and let you see and see more and defy you if
you’re a man to see that and, like a sneeze coming, legs, look, look
and if you have any guts in you. Fashion part
of their charm. Goulding, a flush struggling in his pale, told Mr Bloom, face of the
night, Si in Ned Lambert’s, Dedalus house, sang _’Twas rank and fame. Sadly over the
crossblind Lydia Douce and Mina Kennedy gaze. —I have no place to sleep myself, Stephen informed him. Shakespeare Bacon’s wild oats. Beauty is not there. His arm: Cranly’s arm. Meant
nothing. His little man-o’-war top and
unmentionables were full of sand but Cissy was a past mistress in the
art of smoothing over life’s tiny troubles and very quickly not one
speck of sand was to be seen on his smart little suit. Said that. I gave you strict instructions, didn’t I? Do it
standing, sir! I’ll teach you to behave like a jinkleman! If I catch a
trace on your swaddles. —_A cenar teco. Parried again. —Yes, Stephen said uncertainly because he thought he felt a strange
kind of flesh of a different man approach him, sinewless and wobbly and
all that. And Paddy Leonard taking
him off to his face. The little house. Do you intend to pay it back?

O, yes. _(She glances round her at the couples. And a call, pure, long and throbbing. That worthy, however, was busily engaged in collecting round the. _Prix de Paris_: beware of imitations. These are handy things to have. He proves by algebra that Hamlet’s grandson is
Shakespeare’s grandfather and that he himself is the ghost of his own
father. The hall. Whusky!

—Uncle Richie, really. Milly too rock oil and flour. They are entwined in nethermost darkness, the willer
with the willed, and in an instant (_fiat!_) light shall flood the
world. The walk. They were sorted in teams and
Mr Deasy came away stepping over wisps of grass with gaitered feet. The nails, yes. Recipe for white wine vinegar. We think of Rome,
imperial, imperious, imperative. Illustrate thou. This weather makes you
dull. Father Conmee was very glad to see the wife of Mr David Sheehy M. Wellcut frockcoat. But the shape is there. Woman shows joy and covers herself with featherskins. Water to water. He sat down, cut and buttered a slice of the loaf. Theodotus and S. )_

HENRY: _(In a low dulcet voice, touching the strings of his guitar. _(His clenched fist at his
brow. Instinct. —Barney mavourneen’s be it, says I. —Monks, sir? a voice asked from the castingbox. No. It was he
who mattered and there was joy on her face because she wanted him
because she felt instinctively that he was like no-one else. ZOE: Babby!

BLOOM: _(In babylinen and pelisse, bigheaded, with a caul of dark hair,
fixes big eyes on her fluid slip and counts its bronze buckles with a
chubby finger, his moist tongue lolling and lisping. Gammon and spinach. D. For the
rest there is that English invention, pamphlet of which I received some
days ago, incorrectly addressed. —The king of Spain’s daughter, Stephen answered, adding something or
other rather muddled about farewell and adieu to you Spanish onions and
the first land called the Deadman and from Ramhead to Scilly was so and
so many. Black refracts heat. Dinners fit for princes. Aha. Unmentionable. Tap. If you ring up. They blow
ickylickysticky yumyum kisses. loves a fair gentleman. —_M’appari,_ Simon, Father Cowley said. Saffron bun
and milk and soda lunch in the educational dairy. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U. Why did he desist from speculation?

Because it was a task for a superior intelligence to substitute other
more acceptable phenomena in the place of the less acceptable phenomena
to be removed. A yeoman captain. He would be eleven now if he had lived. Brother Buzz. Pompedy. Mr Kernan, pleased with the order he had booked, walked boldly along
James’s street. _(He crows with a black capon’s laugh. Never know anything about it. That’s our national problem, I’m afraid, just now. Explos. But we have
also Roman law. Ah! She
glanced at him as she bent forward quickly, a pathetic little glance of
piteous protest, of shy reproach under which he coloured like a girl. Tell him that straight from the stable. The habit of independent purchase increasingly cultivated. A coffin bumped out on to the road. Must go back for that lotion. , F. Irish Homestead. Hellenise it. M. )_
It is a funny sound. Here. With what modifications did the narrator reply to this interrogation?

Negative: he omitted to mention the clandestine correspondence between
Martha Clifford and Henry Flower, the public altercation at, in and in
the vicinity of the licensed premises of Bernard Kiernan and Co,
Limited, 8, 9 and 10 Little Britain street, the erotic provocation and
response thereto caused by the exhibitionism of Gertrude (Gerty),
surname unknown. _Voglio e non vorrei_. He sprang it open with his thumb and offered it. Yea, turtledove her. )_ Thousand places of
entertainment to expense your evenings with lovely ladies saling gloves
and other things perhaps hers heart beerchops perfect fashionable house
very eccentric where lots cocottes beautiful dressed much about
princesses like are dancing cancan and walking there parisian
clowneries extra foolish for bachelors foreigns the same if talking a
poor english how much smart they are on things love and sensations
voluptuous. —Thanks, sir. I hope it wasn’t any near relation. ; the rev. —He knew what money was, Mr Deasy said. Please, sir. What lay under exposure on the lower, middle and upper shelves of the
kitchen dresser, opened by Bloom?

On the lower shelf five vertical breakfast plates, six horizontal
breakfast saucers on which rested inverted breakfast cups, a
moustachecup, uninverted, and saucer of Crown Derby, four white
goldrimmed eggcups, an open shammy purse displaying coins, mostly
copper, and a phial of aromatic (violet) comfits. The man
in the brown macintosh loves a lady who is dead. It was the big fellow shoved me, sir. BLOOM: _(Repentantly. By striking him dead with a
hatchet. Going under the railway arch he took out the envelope, tore it swiftly
in shreds and scattered them towards the road. Thither the extremely large wains bring
foison of the fields, flaskets of cauliflowers, floats of spinach,
pineapple chunks, Rangoon beans, strikes of tomatoes, drums of figs,
drills of Swedes, spherical potatoes and tallies of iridescent kale,
York and Savoy, and trays of onions, pearls of the earth, and punnets
of mushrooms and custard marrows and fat vetches and bere and rape and
red green yellow brown russet sweet big bitter ripe pomellated apples
and chips of strawberries and sieves of gooseberries, pulpy and
pelurious, and strawberries fit for princes and raspberries from their
canes. _(Laughter)_

BUCKMULLIGAN: (_Piano, diminuendo_)

     Then outspoke medical Dick
     To his comrade medical Davy. What
time is the funeral? Better find out in the paper. Evening hours, girls in grey gauze. Ate by sharks after. Make a detour. Bloom stays with
nurse a thought to send a kind word to happy mother and nurseling up
there. FLORRY: _(Pulls at Bello. Time of the
plague. Eh? Deaths. I spoke to no-one: none to me. Miles
of it unreeled. He has me
heartscalded. —He had a good slice of luck, Jack Mooney was telling me, over that
boxingmatch Myler Keogh won again that soldier in the Portobello
barracks. From
Ailesbury road, Clyde road, artisans’ dwellings, north Dublin union,
lord mayor in his gingerbread coach, old queen in a bathchair. )_

ZOE: Who has a fag as I’m here?

LYNCH: _(Tossing a cigarette on to the table. Had Bloom discussed similar subjects during nocturnal perambulations in
the past?

In 1884 with Owen Goldberg and Cecil Turnbull at night on public
thoroughfares between Longwood avenue and Leonard’s corner and
Leonard’s corner and Synge street and Synge street and Bloomfield
avenue. Remember Pasiphae for whose lust my grandoldgrossfather made the first
confessionbox. A tiny yawn opened the mouth of the wife of the gentleman
with the glasses. But hard to tell. That _Kilkenny People_ in the national
library now I must. B. O, he can look it up in the prescriptions
book. Try it. Good biz for
cheapjacks, organs. _(He plunges his head into the gaping belly of the hanged and
draws out his head again clotted with coiled and smoking entrails. Got me? That’s it. Here, Terry, give us a
pony. Yes, it was Crofton met him one evening bringing her
a pound of rumpsteak. 6. Mozart’s twelfth mass: _Gloria_ in that. Quiet brute. )_ What the eye can’t see the heart can’t grieve for. Because he comes from Oxford. THE CITIZEN: _Erin go bragh!_

_(Major Tweedy and the Citizen exhibit to each other medals,
decorations, trophies of war, wounds. Tap. —Was he? Mr Dedalus said, returning with fetched pipe. The man’s shrieked whistle struck his limp ears. All she there told him, ruing
death for friend so young, algate sore unwilling God’s rightwiseness to
withsay. We were in Lombard street west. Lord Iveagh once cashed a sevenfigure
cheque for a million in the bank of Ireland. Here’s good luck. Singing. Her posies too! Mad romp that she is, she had pulled her fill as we
reclined together. She
lapped slower, then licking the saucer clean. Phocas of Sinope and
S. Psha! Press and the bar! Where have you a man now at the bar like those
fellows, like Whiteside, like Isaac Butt, like silvertongued O’Hagan. No more pain. For them
unheeding him he banged on the counter his tray of chattering china. A silk ladder of
innumerable rungs climbs to his bobbing howdah. 1. Looking at me, the sheet up to her
eyes, Spanish, smelling herself, when I was fixing the links in my
cuffs. That haunting sense kind of drew you. on the 21 March 1896, matrimonial gift of Matthew Dillon: a dwarf
tree of glacial arborescence under a transparent bellshade, matrimonial
gift of Luke and Caroline Doyle: an embalmed owl, matrimonial gift of
Alderman John Hooper. Breakdown. _(She breaks off and nibbles a piece, gives a piece to Kitty Ricketts
and then turns kittenishly to Lynch. —Certainly, sir. Why we left the church of Rome. Yeoman cap. )_ Clean your nailless middle finger first,
your bully’s cold spunk is dripping from your cockscomb. Eleven. Cleary, O. (a huge ad in its way) and gentlemanly
bearing to all the more influence the good impression he would
infallibly score a distinct success, being blessed with brains which
also could be utilised for the purpose and other requisites, if his
clothes were properly attended to so as to the better worm his way into
their good graces as he, a youthful tyro in society’s sartorial
niceties, hardly understood how a little thing like that could militate
against you. Like
flowers. See
the little kipper not up to his navel and the big fellow swiping. A fellow that’s neither fish
nor flesh. Faces of Paris men go by, their wellpleased
pleasers, curled conquistadores. Welloff people,
proud that their eldest son was in the navy. Queer up there in the cockloft, alone, with stops and locks and keys. But the best pucker
for science was Jem Corbet before Fitzsimons knocked the stuffings out
of him, dodging and all. _

I might find here one of my pawned schoolprizes. Vain patience to heap and hoard. Pigdog and always was ever since he
was pupped! To dare address me! I’ll flog him black and blue in the
public streets. Trousers? Suppose I when I was? No. A. Round him peered Lenehan. —That one about the cracked lookingglass of a servant being the symbol
of Irish art is deuced good. Not unlike her with her hair down: slimmer. His underjaw fell
sideways open uncertainly. He carried a memory in his wallet as he trudged to Romeville whistling
_The girl I left behind me. Mirus bazaar
fireworks go up from all sides with symbolical phallopyrotechnic
designs. Punish me, please. No fake, old man Leo. Gob, the citizen made a plunge back into the shop. I gave her the amberoid necklace she broke. A chord, longdrawn, expectant,
drew a voice away. Piers by moonlight. The telephone rang rudely by her ear. Arith. Panther, the Roman centurion, polluted her with his genitories. )_ And the rest!

BLOOM: _(Dejected. _(She clutches again in her robe. Same as
Citron’s house. m. The pink edition extra sporting of the _Telegraph_ tell a graphic lie
lay, as luck would have it, beside his elbow and as he was just
puzzling again, far from satisfied, over a country belonging to him and
the preceding rebus the vessel came from Bridgwater and the postcard
was addressed A. Well of all
the. Wouldn’t give that
satisfaction. _(Shocked, on weak hams, he halts. Yes, I believe it is the same objectionable person. They put the bag of plums between
them and eat the plums out of it, one after another, wiping off with
their handkerchiefs the plumjuice that dribbles out of their mouths and
spitting the plumstones slowly out between the railings. Tap. Mr Bloom’s eye followed its
line and saw again the dyeworks’ van drawn up before Drago’s. Fag today. It was a charming day. What I mean is. )_ A lamp. gutenberg. —Haja ja ja haja. I pass on. Our souls. He stooped and gathered
them. With grace she tapped a measure of gold whisky from
her crystal keg. The human voice, two tiny silky chords, wonderful,
more than all others. Didn’t
let her see me in profile. Not but what he could feel with
mettlesome youth which, caring nought for the mows of dotards or the
gruntlings of the severe, is ever (as the chaste fancy of the Holy
Writer expresses it) for eating of the tree forbid it yet not so far
forth as to pretermit humanity upon any condition soever towards a
gentlewoman when she was about her lawful occasions. I looked all along the gutter in O’Connell
street. Bantam, two days teetee. I got
mummy’s lovely box of creams and am writing. He turned away and sauntered across the road. Father Cowley
brushed his moustache often downward with a scooping hand. Her death brought from him the scene with Volumnia in
_Coriolanus. Poor Bloom!

_(Reuben J Dodd, blackbearded Iscariot, bad shepherd, bearing on his
shoulders the drowned corpse of his son, approaches the pillory. Sitting or kneeling you couldn’t. Why, as he reflected, Irishtown strand, a locality he had not
been in for quite a number of years looked different somehow since, as
it happened, he went to reside on the north side. BLOOM: Laughing witch! The hand that rocks the cradle. O, flowers! Bells with bells with bells
aquiring. )_ When love absorbs my ardent soul. And Ristori in Vienna. He laps. It wasn’t
her weight. —They accuse, remarked he audibly. The turnstile. )_ Thirtytwo head over heels per
second. What was Bloom’s visual sensation?

He saw in a quick young male familiar form the predestination of a
future. We. Bubble and squeak. There all the time without you: and ever shall be, world
without end. The temper of him! O, he was a man already was little Tommy
Caffrey since he was out of pinnies. You have lashed the dormant tigress in my nature into
fury. Hold hard. Love’s old sweet song. Fate. Bird sitting
hatching in a nest. on
the following Thursday, Dunsink time. —The grand canal, he said. Better buy one. Queen of angels, queen of patriarchs, queen of prophets, of all saints,
they prayed, queen of the most holy rosary and then Father Conroy
handed the thurible to Canon O’Hanlon and he put in the incense and
censed the Blessed Sacrament and Cissy Caffrey caught the two twins and
she was itching to give them a ringing good clip on the ear but she
didn’t because she thought he might be watching but she never made a
bigger mistake in all her life because Gerty could see without looking
that he never took his eyes off of her and then Canon O’Hanlon handed
the thurible back to Father Conroy and knelt down looking up at the
Blessed Sacrament and the choir began to sing the _Tantum ergo_ and she
just swung her foot in and out in time as the music rose and fell to
the _Tantumer gosa cramen tum_. —And has remained so, one should hope, John Eglinton sedately said. Up
like a rocket, down like a stick. I
just simply stood pale, silent, bayed about. Dr Lucas. The reverend Hugh C. Their butteries and larders. He
seizes solitary paper. A roar. _

So J. Met him pike hoses she called it till I told her
about the transmigration. The lord
mayor was there, Val Dillon it was, and sir Charles Cameron and Dan
Dawson spoke and there was music. BELLO: Hold him down, girls, till I squat on him. _(He turns gravely to
the first watch. C. Leopold. I don’t believe it. Mr W. I didn’t know what was up and Alf kept making signs out of the
door. She was
about to retort but something checked the words on her tongue. R. ten shillings. He is sausaged into
several overcoats and wears a brown macintosh under which he holds a
roll of parchment. The word reminds one somehow of fat in the fire. , M. Pa was inside it and ma crying in the parlour and uncle Barney telling
the men how to get it round the bend. Pity. Thousands every hour. If you do tremble in anticipation of heel
discipline to be inflicted in gym costume. Then spake young Stephen orgulous of
mother Church that would cast him out of her bosom, of law of canons,
of Lilith, patron of abortions, of bigness wrought by wind of seeds of
brightness or by potency of vampires mouth to mouth or, as Virgilius
saith, by the influence of the occident or by the reek of moonflower or
an she lie with a woman which her man has but lain with, _effectu
secuto_, or peradventure in her bath according to the opinions of
Averroes and Moses Maimonides. Let everything rip. A smile goes a long way. She admired: a natural
phenomenon having been explained by him to her she expressed the
immediate desire to possess without gradual acquisition a fraction of
his science, the moiety, the quarter, a thousandth part. )
Voglio e non. With whom? She nobly
answered: with a gentleman friend. —O God! Mr Power whispered. D. Wail, Banba, with
your wind: and wail, O ocean, with your whirlwind. Shakespeare’s _Works_ (dark crimson morocco, goldtooled). A drunken navvy grips with both hands
the railings of an area, lurching heavily. Milly, no sign of funk. J. And the gay
lakin, mistress Fitton, mount and cry O, and his dainty birdsnies, lady
Penelope Rich, a clean quality woman is suited for a player, and the
punks of the bankside, a penny a time. But Henry wrote: it will excite me. With an adroit snap he catches it and bites it
through with a crack. Goodbye Ireland I’m going to Gort. We’ll paralyse Europe as Ignatius Gallaher
used to say when he was on the shaughraun, doing billiardmarking in the
Clarence. He tapped his chest sadly. Out on spec probably. —Come on, Gerty, Cissy called. He
could not leave his mother an orphan. Puzzle find the meat. Lank coils of seaweed hair around me,
my heart, my soul. The Boers were the beginning of the end. *    *    *


Miss Dunne hid the Capel street library copy of _The Woman in White_
far back in her drawer and rolled a sheet of gaudy notepaper into her
typewriter. He tossed it off the pan on to a plate and
let the scanty brown gravy trickle over it. Pleasant to see first thing in the
morning. Why was he doubly irritated?

Because he had forgotten and because he remembered that he had reminded
himself twice not to forget. Inev erate inall. Mr Dedalus
fell back, saying:

—Was that Mulligan cad with him? His _fidus Achates_!

—No, Mr Bloom said. Head like a prize pumpkin. Want a cool head. Bald Pat in the doorway met tealess gold returning. —They want to see the views of Dublin from the top of Nelson’s pillar. Then a sigh: silence. I am not on pleasure bent. )_

MARION: Let him look, the pishogue! Pimp! And scourge himself! I’ll
write to a powerful prostitute or Bartholomona, the bearded woman, to
raise weals out on him an inch thick and make him bring me back a
signed and stamped receipt. )_ ’Twas I sent you that valentine of
the dear gazelle. I’m up to
here. More dead for her than for me. Yooka. By
Hades, I will not have any client of mine gagged and badgered in this
fashion by a pack of curs and laughing hyenas. Get a glass of milk
for yourself and a bun or a something. And don’t you
smash that piano. )_ I’ll introduce you, inspector. BELLA: _(Contemptuously. Before the
mirror the matrimonial gift of Alderman John Hooper with a clear
melancholy wise bright motionless compassionate gaze regarded Bloom
while Bloom with obscure tranquil profound motionless compassionated
gaze regarded the matrimonial gift of Luke and Caroline Doyle. says is the book
sensation of the year. He’d look nice on the
city charger. It was a crack and want of glue. No, Richie said. Drum? Pompedy. Down stage he strode some paces, grave, tall in affliction, his long
arms outheld. Their eyes were probing her mercilessly but with a brave effort she
sparkled back in sympathy as she glanced at her new conquest for them
to see. —Still there? I got a card from Bannon. Have your daughters inveigling them to your house. Coming from the vegetarian. I want
puce gloves. Seem to like it. Rhubarb tart with liberal fillings, rich fruit interior. He trips awkwardly. Rhymes: two men dressed the
same, looking the same, two by two. Inclination prompted her to speak out: dignity told her to be silent. He lifted
his feet up from the suck and turned back by the mole of boulders. In the tabledrawer he found an old number of _Titbits_. The flowers that bloom in the spring. A poet, yes, but
an Englishman too. Confession. J. Stevenson, C. No, sir. And her mother said to him to let that be a
warning to him for the rest of his days and he couldn’t even go to the
funeral on account of the gout and she had to go into town to bring him
the letters and samples from his office about Catesby’s cork lino,
artistic, standard designs, fit for a palace, gives tiptop wear and
always bright and cheery in the home. On the vigil of the
15th anniversary of her birth she wrote a letter from Mullingar, county
Westmeath, making a brief allusion to a local student (faculty and year
not stated). His heavy pitying gaze absorbed her news. Artillery. —No, no, Mr Dedalus said quickly. Pig’s feet. He will ask for it. ZOE: There was a priest down here two nights ago to do his bit of
business with his coat buttoned up. By God they did right to keep the women out of it. (Blazes) Boylan and so
each and so on to no last term. gutenberg. Two quills project over his ears. They are practical and are proved to be so. Of course, I grant
you, to concede a point, you do knock across a simple soul once in a
blue moon. _

—Prove that he was a jew, John Eglinton dared, expectantly. The milkwhite dolphin tossed his mane and, rising in the golden poop
the helmsman spread the bellying sail upon the wind and stood off
forward with all sail set, the spinnaker to larboard. Sure he has a small bank balance somewhere, government
sit. Although the former (we are
thinking of neglect) is undoubtedly only too true the case he cites of
nurses forgetting to count the sponges in the peritoneal cavity is too
rare to be normative. How can
people aim guns at each other. Scholastica and S. And his wife
engagement in the country valise, voice like a pickaxe. Kingstown pier, sir. Lethargy
then. And pray for us. Then the decree _nisi_ and the King’s proctor
tries to show cause why and, he failing to quash it, _nisi_ was made
absolute. Threw herself back across the bed,
screaming, kicking. Part
shares and part profits. Twopence a pint, fourpence a quart,
eightpence a gallon of porter, no, one and fourpence a gallon of
porter. We walk through
ourselves, meeting robbers, ghosts, giants, old men, young men, wives,
widows, brothers-in-love, but always meeting ourselves. Hear his voice in the house. Ah, you mean it’s after twelve!

—The day before yesterday, Stephen said, improving on himself. It has been said by one:
beware the left, the cult of Shakti. Tup. He withdrew his hand and pulled his dress to. Then he cut away dies of
bread, sopped one in the gravy and put it in his mouth. )_ She’s on the job herself tonight
with the vet her tipster that gives her all the winners and pays for
her son in Oxford. Hear, hear! Prolonged applause. —Arrah, give over your bloody codding, Joe, says I. Gold cup. Place made me think of that I suppose. Davy Byrne, sated after his yawn, said with tearwashed eyes:

—And is that a fact? Decent quiet man he is. )_ I’m disappointed in you! You bad
man!

MOTHER GROGAN: _(Removes her boot to throw it at Bloom. —And I’m sure He will, says Joe. Married too. —Getting it up? he said. Bloom becomes
mute, shrunken, carbonised. But on young Malachi they waited for that
he promised to have come and such as intended to no goodness said how
he had broke his avow. One born every second
somewhere. What was it you. —Antiquity mentions that Stagyrite schoolurchin and bald heathen sage,
Stephen said, who when dying in exile frees and endows his slaves, pays
tribute to his elders, wills to be laid in earth near the bones of his
dead wife and bids his friends be kind to an old mistress (don’t forget
Nell Gwynn Herpyllis) and let her live in his villa. —You could have knelt down, damn it, Kinch, when your dying mother
asked you, Buck Mulligan said. Grandfather ape
gloating on a stolen hoard. , 5 Dame
street, Dublin), Jerusalem, the holy city (with mosque of Omar and gate
of Damascus, goal of aspiration), the straits of Gibraltar (the unique
birthplace of Marion Tweedy), the Parthenon (containing statues of nude
Grecian divinities), the Wall street money market (which controlled
international finance), the Plaza de Toros at La Linea, Spain (where
O’Hara of the Camerons had slain the bull), Niagara (over which no
human being had passed with impunity), the land of the Eskimos (eaters
of soap), the forbidden country of Thibet (from which no traveller
returns), the bay of Naples (to see which was to die), the Dead Sea. Spoils slung at her back. Gulls. )_ Whereas Leopold Bloom of no fixed abode is a
wellknown dynamitard, forger, bigamist, bawd and cuckold and a public
nuisance to the citizens of Dublin and whereas at this commission of
assizes the most honourable. Little Alf was knocked bawways. I fear thee, ancient
mariner. Dogbiscuits. When he had betaken himself to
the women’s apartment to assist at the prescribed ceremony of the
afterbirth in the presence of the secretary of state for domestic
affairs and the members of the privy council, silent in unanimous
exhaustion and approbation the delegates, chafing under the length and
solemnity of their vigil and hoping that the joyful occurrence would
palliate a licence which the simultaneous absence of abigail and
obstetrician rendered the easier, broke out at once into a strife of
tongues. points out in an interesting
communication published by an evening contemporary) of the harsher and
more personal note which is found in the satirical effusions of the
famous Raftery and of Donal MacConsidine to say nothing of a more
modern lyrist at present very much in the public eye. Or the
Moira, was it?

They passed under the hugecloaked Liberator’s form. Ah, now he heard, she holding it to his ear. Opulent curves fill out her scarlet
trousers and jacket, slashed with gold. And round he goes to Bob
Doran that was standing Alf a half one sucking up for what he could
get. Ben Dollard’s loose blue cutaway and square hat above large slops
crossed the quay in full gait from the metal bridge. Where’s the ten shillings I gave you on Monday? Are
you feeding your little brother’s family? Soiled handkerchief:
medicinebottle. —Right, Mr Bloom said with a nod. —This gentleman? _Freeman’s Journal? Kilkenny People?_ To be sure. —That reminds me, Haines said, rising, that I have to visit your
national library today. Enough stuff here to chloroform you. Priest with the communion
corpus for those women. Portals of discovery opened to let in the quaker librarian,
softcreakfooted, bald, eared and assiduous. Had he found their solution?

In spite of careful and repeated reading of certain classical passages,
aided by a glossary, he had derived imperfect conviction from the text,
the answers not bearing in all points. Rough weather outside. )_ Be just before you are generous. His postcard proved a centre of attraction for Messrs the greenhorns
for several minutes if not more. Clear. —Nor good red herring, says Joe. Tara. I meant only the spanking idea. All the windows are thronged with
sightseers, chiefly ladies. Children fighting for the scrapings of the pot. Do you think they are
genuine? He could spin those yarns for hours on end all night long and
lie like old boots. out of him. !

BLOOM: _(Calls after her. BLOOM: _(With rollicking humour. O, I can read your thoughts!

BLOOM: _(Bitterly. He stepped out of the carriage, replacing the newspaper his other hand
still held. Then about six o’clock I can. J. The protestants are the same. But he wants a par to call attention in the _Telegraph_ too, the
Saturday pink. I dare him, says he, and I doubledare him. Truest bedthanes they twain are, for Horne
holding wariest ward. The spirit moving him he would much have liked to follow Jack Tar’s
good example and leave the likeness there for a very few minutes to
speak for itself on the plea he so that the other could drink in the
beauty for himself, her stage presence being, frankly, a treat in
itself which the camera could not at all do justice to. Change the subject. Bernard
and S. The murderer’s image in the eye of the murdered. A violent erection of the hanged sends gouts
of sperm spouting through his deathclothes on to the cobblestones. The King’s own. B. ZOE-FANNY: I let him larrup it into me for the fun of it. —Monks!

—Yes, sir. Tipping her tepping her
tapping her topping her. )_

THE NANNYGOAT: _(Bleats. —Did you hear that one, he asked them, about Mulcahy from the Coombe?

—I did not, Martin Cunningham said. Terrible!

—First round Dunphy’s, Mr Dedalus said, nodding. —Excuse me, J. You simply don’t knock against those kind
of women here. The machines clanked in threefour time. _Argumentum ad feminam_, as we said in old Rome and ancient Greece in
the consulship of Diplodocus and Ichthyosauros. Tap. Still the plain straightforward question why a child of
normally healthy parents and seemingly a healthy child and properly
looked after succumbs unaccountably in early childhood (though other
children of the same marriage do not) must certainly, in the poet’s
words, give us pause. It never comes the same. _(He laughs. Or do you mean the intelligence, the brainpower as such,
as distinct from any outside object, the table, let us say, that cup. Molly in _quis est homo_: Mercadante. Third time is the charm. Three newlaid
gallons a day. The shiny links,
packed with forcemeat, fed his gaze and he breathed in tranquilly the
lukewarm breath of cooked spicy pigs’ blood. Grace after meals. He turned abruptly his grey searching eyes from the sea to Stephen’s
face. I haven’t seen her for some
time. How’s that, eh? Wright
and Flint, Vincent and Gillett to Rotha Marion daughter of Rosa and the
late George Alfred Gillett, 179 Clapham road, Stockwell, Playwood and
Ridsdale at Saint Jude’s, Kensington by the very reverend Dr Forrest,
dean of Worcester. )_

THE CHIMES: Turn again, Leopold! Lord mayor of Dublin!

BLOOM: _(In alderman’s gown and chain. Life, life. —Some people, says Bloom, can see the mote in others’ eyes but they
can’t see the beam in their own. Give us that
brisket off the hook. Knock. )_ You had better hand over that cash to me to take
care of. She was reading the card, propped on her elbow. I’d like to see them
do the black fast Yom Kippur. Spurned and undespairing. An outlandish delegate sustained against
both these views, with such heat as almost carried conviction, the
theory of copulation between women and the males of brutes, his
authority being his own avouchment in support of fables such as that of
the Minotaur which the genius of the elegant Latin poet has handed down
to us in the pages of his Metamorphoses. )_ Fellowchristians and antiBloomites,
the man called Bloom is from the roots of hell, a disgrace to christian
men. _(The famished snaggletusks of an elderly bawd protrude from a
doorway. ) Morituri te salutant. All those wretched quarrels, in his humble opinion, stirring up bad
blood, from some bump of combativeness or gland of some kind,
erroneously supposed to be about a punctilio of honour and a flag, were
very largely a question of the money question which was at the back of
everything, greed and jealousy, people never knowing when to stop. S. But look: the bright stars fade. Damn that fellow’s noise in the street. And after came all saints and martyrs, virgins and confessors: S. Gone. FIRST WATCH: What do you tax him with?

MARY DRISCOLL: He made a certain suggestion but I thought more of
myself as poor as I am. )_

RICHIE: Best value in Dub. Stephen, his blood wooed by grace of language and gesture, blushed. Are you my commander here or? Where is
he? I’ll charge him! Disgrace him, I will! _(She shouts. Moses Dlugacz, ferreteyed albino,
in blue dungarees, stands up in the gallery, holding in each hand an
orange citron and a pork kidney. )_

THE THREE WHORES: _(Covering their ears, squawk. )_ Adorer of the adulterous rump!

BLOOM: _(Plaintively. Tantalising for the
poor dead. Out of her oakframe a nymph with
hair unbound, lightly clad in teabrown artcolours, descends from her
grotto and passing under interlacing yews stands over Bloom. Other
world she wrote. I know. Grave Bloom
regards Zoe’s neck. He pointed to two faces peering in round the doorframe. That’s what good salesman is. They threw young heads back, bronze gigglegold, to let
freefly their laughter, screaming, your other, signals to each other,
high piercing notes. He passed the cabman’s shelter. Phil Blake’s weekly Pat
and Bull story. When you two begin. But then you’re in a
cart. Apjohn, myself and Owen Goldberg up in the
trees near Goose green playing the monkeys. The poor man starves while they are
grassing their royal mountain stags or shooting peasants and
phartridges in their purblind pomp of pelf and power. Cabled right away. The great physician called him
home. Gate. How time flies,
eh? Showing long red pantaloons under his skirts. Tell mother you’ll be there. Whisper. No nursery work
for her, thanks. But he practically promised he’d give
the renewal. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. engaged in stifling another yawn, half
nervousness, not forgetting the usual crop of nonsensical howlers of
misprints. Out for the waxies’
Dargle. Tap. Looks full up of bad gas. _Habeas corpus_. Stephen followed a lubber. _(The sound of a waterfall is heard in bright cascade. Other chap telling him
something with his mouth full. Mrs Cohen’s. What improvements might be subsequently introduced?

A rabbitry and fowlrun, a dovecote, a botanical conservatory, 2
hammocks (lady’s and gentleman’s), a sundial shaded and sheltered by
laburnum or lilac trees, an exotically harmonically accorded Japanese
tinkle gatebell affixed to left lateral gatepost, a capacious
waterbutt, a lawnmower with side delivery and grassbox, a lawnsprinkler
with hydraulic hose. Aha! I see. —I know, Hynes said. )_ I am doing good to others. —And moreover, says J. The letter. —What’s yours? says Joe. Thanking you for the hospitality tear the blank end off. Fields of undersea, the lines faint brown in grass, buried
cities. Yes, she had known from the very first that her daydream of a marriage
has been arranged and the weddingbells ringing for Mrs Reggy Wylie T. So I landed them up on Behan’s car and down to nighttown. Intellectual stimulation,
as such, was, he felt, from time to time a firstrate tonic for the
mind. _ Seabedabbled, fallen, weltering. Hallstand
too full. Ssh!

THE NYMPH: _(Softly. —_. Brangan, O. Twentytwo years ago he sixteen fell off his hobbyhorse. )_ Beware God’s hand!
_(A green crab with malignant red eyes sticks deep its grinning claws
in Stephen’s heart. Gum, I’m jiggered. To be printed and bound at the Druiddrum press by two
designing females. Let him give us a three months’ renewal. )_

VIRAG: _(Heels together, bows. Send him back the half of a cow. C. Would you like to see a priest? Then rambling and
wandering. Went too far last time. Blackened court cards laid along her thigh by sevens. Such fleshy parts
are the product of careful nurture. —You said, Stephen answered, _O, it’s only Dedalus whose mother is
beastly dead. Par it’s Greek:
parallel, parallax. _(Signor Maffei, passionpale, in liontamer’s costume with diamond studs
in his shirtfront, steps forward, holding a circus paperhoop, a curling
carriagewhip and a revolver with which he covers the gorging
boarhound. Why was the chant arrested at the conclusion of this first distich?

In consequence of defective mnemotechnic. That afternoon of the inquest. Bob’s a queer chap when
the porter’s up in him so says I just to make talk:

—How’s Willy Murray those times, Alf?

—I don’t know, says Alf. As it so happened a Dublin United Tramways Company’s
sandstrewer happened to be returning and the elder man recounted to his
companion _à propos_ of the incident his own truly miraculous escape of
some little while back. )_ I shall call rebutting evidence to prove up to the hilt that
the hidden hand is again at its old game. Bet she wears those curse of God stays suspenders
and yellow stockings, darned with lumpy wool. )_ Worse, worse!

BLOOM: _(Reflects precautiously. STEPHEN: _(Catches sight of Lynch’s and Kitty’s heads. Dull eye: collar tight on his neck,
pressing on a bloodvessel or something. We are becoming important, it
seems. Couldn’t loosen her farting
strings but old cod’s eye was waltzing around her showing her how to do
it. ) Pater!_ Free!

BLOOM: I say, look. F. Send her a postal order two
shillings, half a crown. He held his caved hands a cubit from him, frowning:

—I was tucking the rug under her and settling her boa all the time. And mournful and with a heavy heart he bewept the extinction of that
beam of heaven. E. Mass seems to be over. Always
open sesame. There
was an innate refinement, a languid queenly _hauteur_ about Gerty which
was unmistakably evidenced in her delicate hands and higharched instep. Martin Cunningham frequently said he would work
a pass through Egan but some deuced hitch or other eternally cropped up
with the net result that the scheme fell through. )_

TOM KERNAN: You deserve it, your honour. 1. High wall: beyond strings twanged. Like the fat boy in Pickwick he wants to make our
flesh creep. But such a good poor brute he was sorry he hadn’t a lump
of sugar but, as he wisely reflected, you could scarcely be prepared
for every emergency that might crop up. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions. A phenomenally beautiful tenor voice like that, the rarest of boons,
which Bloom appreciated at the very first note he got out, could
easily, if properly handled by some recognised authority on voice
production such as Barraclough and being able to read music into the
bargain, command its own price where baritones were ten a penny and
procure for its fortunate possessor in the near future an _entrée_ into
fashionable houses in the best residential quarters of financial
magnates in a large way of business and titled people where with his
university degree of B. The metrical system of the canine original, which
recalls the intricate alliterative and isosyllabic rules of the Welsh
englyn, is infinitely more complicated but we believe our readers will
agree that the spirit has been well caught. Amen. It had better be stated here and now at the outset that the perverted
transcendentalism to which Mr S. For all
these knotty points see the seventeenth book of my Fundamentals of
Sexology or the Love Passion which Doctor L. —Same again, Terry, says Joe. He thrust the sheets back and went into the inner office. Train with engine behind. Set down his
glass. Staring backers with square hats stood
round the roped prizering. Delahunt of Camden street had the
catering and yours truly was chief bottlewasher. How had he attempted to remedy this state of comparative ignorance?

Variously. He was leaning back against the rock behind. Litigation. There is another world after death named hell. There: bearskin cap and hackle plume. The viceroy was most cordially greeted on his way through the
metropolis. —What’s his name? Ikey Moses? Bloom. That door too sllt creaking, asking to be shut. The tip of his little finger blotted out the sun’s disk. —A recently discovered fragment of Cicero, professor MacHugh answered
with pomp of tone. Where’s the sugar? O, jay, there’s no milk. )_ Are you a Dublin girl?

ZOE: _(Catches a stray hair deftly and twists it to her coil. —Ten years, he said, chewing and laughing. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. They serpented
towards his feet, curling, unfurling many crests, every ninth,
breaking, plashing, from far, from farther out, waves and waves. True men. O’Brien and others,
the agrarian policy of Michael Davitt, the constitutional agitation of
Charles Stewart Parnell (M. The stick fell in silted sand, stuck. Growling and grousing and his eye all bloodshot from the drouth
is in it and the hydrophobia dropping out of his jaws. —The ace of spades! Mr Bloom said. Suppose he lost the pin of his. , etc. Otherwise you couldn’t remember the face after
fifteen years, say. Jumbo, the elephant, loves Alice, the elephant. Tight collar he’ll lose his hair. Across his loins is slung a pilgrim’s wallet
from which protrude promissory notes and dishonoured bills. He stops dead. England. How’s that for high?

—Changing his drink, Mr Dedalus said. And yourself?

J. They take
me for a dun, peer out from a coign of vantage. —Who’s the best troops in the army? the grizzled old veteran irately
interrogated. A
screaming bittern’s harsh high whistle shrieks. Here, thanks. But look. Rags and bones at midnight. A noiseless attendant setting open the door but slightly made him a
noiseless beck. Drive ahead. Sighing Mr Dedalus came through the saloon, a finger soothing an
eyelid. Must
take up Sandow’s exercises again. What rapid but insecure means to opulence might facilitate immediate
purchase?

A private wireless telegraph which would transmit by dot and dash
system the result of a national equine handicap (flat or steeplechase)
of 1 or more miles and furlongs won by an outsider at odds of 50 to 1
at 3 hr 8 m p. For this relief much thanks. Hold on. But it makes them
giddy to look so they pull up their skirts. —Jacky! Tommy!

Not they! What a great notion they had! So Cissy said it was the very
last time she’d ever bring them out. Whereat Crotthers of Alba Longa sang young Malachi’s praise of that
beast the unicorn how once in the millennium he cometh by his horn, the
other all this while, pricked forward with their jibes wherewith they
did malice him, witnessing all and several by saint Foutinus his
engines that he was able to do any manner of thing that lay in man to
do. Chummies and slaveys. As he awaited the fatal signal he tested
the edge of his horrible weapon by honing it upon his brawny forearm or
decapitated in rapid succession a flock of sheep which had been
provided by the admirers of his fell but necessary office. All soil like that without dung. Nice
name he. _(Breathlessly. It’s all
very fine to boast of mutual superiority but what about mutual
equality. )_

     And they call me the jewel of Asia!


MARTIN CUNNINGHAM: _(Gazes on her, impassive. )_ Hoopsa! Don’t fall
upstairs. For instance M’Auley’s down there: n. His frocktails winked in bright sunshine to
his fat strut. Why, you’re as bad as dear
little Father Cantekissem, that you are! May this pot of four half
choke me, cried Costello, if she aint in the family way. Shulomowitz, Joseph Goldwater, Moses Herzog, Harris Rosenberg, M. Shite and
onions! That’ll do, Ned. I teach the blatant Latin
language. God be with old times. drive. Bloom viewed a gallant pictured hero in Lionel Marks’s window. —Very kind of you, says Bloom. O’Molloy asked. He wrote me an anonymous letter in prentice backhand when my husband
was in the North Riding of Tipperary on the Munster circuit, signed
James Lovebirch. You know, councillor,
the Manx parliament. —O, Mr Bloom said. —The blessing of God and Mary and Patrick on you, says the citizen. Excuse, miss, there’s a
(whh!) just a (whh!) fluff. Nice quiet bar. A
look around. My missus has
just got an. Now begging letters he sends his son with. Or the one in
Grafton street. More than doctor or solicitor. —I know, M’Coy said. p: up. _(He
sneezes. The green light wanes to
mauve. But with what fitness, let it be asked of the noble lord, his patron,
has this alien, whom the concession of a gracious prince has admitted
to civic rights, constituted himself the lord paramount of our internal
polity? Where is now that gratitude which loyalty should have
counselled? During the recent war whenever the enemy had a temporary
advantage with his granados did this traitor to his kind not seize that
moment to discharge his piece against the empire of which he is a
tenant at will while he trembled for the security of his four per
cents? Has he forgotten this as he forgets all benefits received? Or is
it that from being a deluder of others he has become at last his own
dupe as he is, if report belie him not, his own and his only enjoyer?
Far be it from candour to violate the bedchamber of a respectable lady,
the daughter of a gallant major, or to cast the most distant
reflections upon her virtue but if he challenges attention there (as it
was indeed highly his interest not to have done) then be it so. —You were speaking of the gaseous vertebrate, if I mistake not? he
asked of Stephen. A yellow flower with flattened petals. Pills, pounded bread, worth a guinea a box. —I know, Davy Byrne said. Scarlatina, influenza epidemics. )_

MAGINNI: _Dansez avec vos dames! Changez de dames! Donnez le petit
bouquet à votre dame! Remerciez!_

THE PIANOLA:

     Best, best of all,
     Baraabum!

KITTY: _(Jumps up. J. The tissues rustled up in the draught, floated softly in the air
blue scrawls and under the table came to earth. Duck for six wickets. His borrowers are no doubt those divers of worship
mentioned by Chettle Falstaff who reported his uprightness of dealing. There he is airing his quiff. Only
those two, sir, for Belfast and Liverpool. MRS BREEN: She did, of course, the cat! Don’t tell me! Nice adviser!

BLOOM: Because it didn’t suit you one quarter as well as the other
ducky little tammy toque with the bird of paradise wing in it that I
admired on you and you honestly looked just too fetching in it though
it was a pity to kill it, you cruel naughty creature, little mite of a
thing with a heart the size of a fullstop. My native
land, goodnight. Blackbird I heard in the hawthorn valley. _

He crammed his mouth with fry and munched and droned. )_ To be a shoefitter in Manfield’s was my
love’s young dream, the darling joys of sweet buttonhooking, to lace up
crisscrossed to kneelength the dressy kid footwear satinlined, so
incredibly impossibly small, of Clyde Road ladies. Then he slit open his letter, glancing down the page and over. I could feel the thrill in the air, the full, the
people looking up:

_Quis est homo. _(She signs
with a waggling forefinger. _

BLOOM: _(Fascinated. Mr Bloom nodded gravely looking in the quick bloodshot eyes. By God, you’re as good as ever you
were. —And Corny Kelleher himself? Mr Power asked. )_ Up! Up! Manx cat! What have we here? Where’s
your curly teapot gone to or who docked it on you, cockyolly? Sing,
birdy, sing. A. Ah, that soap: in my hip pocket. Madden back Madden’s a maddening back. Nobleman proud to be descended from some king’s mistress. —Don’t you think his face is like Our Saviour? Red Murray whispered. _They nod vigorously in agreement. Perhaps they get a man smell off us. Her ghost at least has been laid
for ever. He has written a really beautiful letter, a poem in itself, to the
court missionary of the Reformed Priests’ Protection Society which
clears up everything. PADDY LEONARD: Thank you. Or we are surprised they have any brains. Her name and address she then told with my tooraloom
tooraloom tay. What homothetic objects, other than the candlestick, stood on the
mantelpiece?

A timepiece of striated Connemara marble, stopped at the hour of 4. (green cloth, slightly
faded, envelope bookmark at p. )_

     We are the boys. )_ Rmm Rmm Rmm Rrrrrrmmmmm. —Or like Mario, Mr Bloom said. I seen her picture in a barber’s. Pellets of new bread with fennygreek and
gumbenjamin swamped down by potions of green tea endow them during
their brief existence with natural pincushions of quite colossal
blubber. Feeling of
white. —Eh? You bloody old Roman empire? Myles Crawford said. Was the guest conscious of and did he acknowledge these marks of
hospitality?

His attention was directed to them by his host jocosely, and he
accepted them seriously as they drank in jocoserious silence Epps’s
massproduct, the creature cocoa. I’ll scourge
the pigeonlivered cur as long as I can stand over him. Peatmot. History to blame. Accordingly he passed his left arm in Stephen’s right and led him on
accordingly. And how I am punished! The inferno has no
terrors for me. So you think. Jesus, Mr Doyle. Bantam Lyons raised his eyes suddenly and leered weakly. Her cerebral lobes
are not functioning. For all things dying, for all things born. Slaves
Chinese wall. Nectar imagine it
drinking electricity: gods’ food. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm. , provost of
Trinity college, Dr Alexander J. Uniform. wood’s woven shade?. )_ Ocularly woman’s bivalve case is worse. No later undoing will undo the first undoing. Folding the page into his pocket he
turned into Eccles street, hurrying homeward. )_

     I vowed that I never would leave her,
     She turned out a cruel deceiver. The clock was on the stroke of twelve. )_ Woman’s hand. His hand went into his pocket and a forefinger
felt its way under the flap of the envelope, ripping it open in jerks. [ 8 ]


Pineapple rock, lemon platt, butter scotch. Griffith’s
paper is on the same tack now: an army rotten with venereal disease:
overseas or halfseasover empire. Rusty wreaths
hung on knobs, garlands of bronzefoil. —I know where he’s gone, says Lenehan, cracking his fingers. Sweet name too: caramel. You’re the warrior. E. E below. E. That boggles ’em. Always someone turns up you never
dreamt of. _

So he went over to the biscuit tin Bob Doran left to see if there was
anything he could lift on the nod, the old cur after him backing his
luck with his mangy snout up. Lynch squats crosslegged on the hearthrug of matted hair, his cap back
to the front. Look at them. You ought to eat. Massboy. The poor wife was awfully cut up. BLOOM: Not to lace the wrong eyelet as I did the night of the bazaar
dance. BLOOM: To drive me mad! Moll! I forgot! Forgive! Moll. There is something sinister in you. By this time the father of the faithful (for so they
called him) was grown so heavy that he could scarce walk to pasture. Roll of Bensoulbenjamin rolled to the quivery loveshivery roofpanes. Our travellers reached the rustic hostelry and alighted from their
palfreys. The
mastiff mauls the bundle clumsily and gluts himself with growling
greed, crunching the bones. Lenehan
walked on again. Shattered glass and toppling masonry. Mona, my true love. Dark lady and fair man. _(She peers at his hands
abruptly. )_ Get back, stand back!

PRIVATE COMPTON: _(Tugging his comrade. Only measles. Father Conmee liked
cheerful decorum. Any advance on five shillings? Going for five shillings. Excellent for shade, fuel
and construction. )_ I’ll wring the neck of
any fucking bastard says a word against my bleeding fucking king. O’Molloy opened his case again and offered it. God’s curse on bitch’s bastard. A servant too. Nurse loves the new chemist. —Yes, that’s the best, he assured Stephen to whom for the matter of
that Brazen Head or him or anywhere else was all more or less. She asked you who was in your room. Last of my race. She asked him was that so. Let them hymn it nine times nine. He
comes, pale vampire, through storm his eyes, his bat sails bloodying
the sea, mouth to her mouth’s kiss. Imperthnthn thnthnthn. —Yes. —Same only more so, says Lenehan. _Stephano Dedalo,
alumno optimo, palmam ferenti. ,
K. In the shadow a shebeenkeeper haggles with the navvy and the two
redcoats. )_ Stop thief! Hurrah there,
Bluebeard! Three cheers for Ikey Mo!

SECOND WATCH: _(Produces handcuffs. What possessed me to buy this comb? 9. And Bloom, of course, with his knockmedown
cigar putting on swank with his lardy face. Too late for
_Leah, Lily of Killarney. I, I and I. Sir Walter Raleigh, when they arrested him, had half a
million francs on his back including a pair of fancy stays. Madden had lost five drachmas on
Sceptre for a whim of the rider’s name: Lenehan as much more. WHAT WETHERUP SAID


All very fine to jeer at it now in cold print but it goes down like hot
cake that stuff. A young man clinging to a spur of rock near him, moved slowly
frogwise his green legs in the deep jelly of the water. Where did they get the
plums?

VIRGILIAN, SAYS PEDAGOGUE. Thanked be Almighty God. Stephen suffered him to pull out and hold up on show by its corner a
dirty crumpled handkerchief. There will be a total eclipse this year: autumn
some time. Pulses were beating in his eyes, veiling their sight, and he
felt the fever of his cheeks. Must have the stage setting, the rouge, costume, position, music. Stop. Special recipe. )_ You’re such a slyboots, old cocky. A paper. _Kilkenny_. Philosophy. Those Cinghalese lobbing about in the sun in _dolce far niente_,
not doing a hand’s turn all day. A bargain. But, by God, I
was lost, so to speak, in the milky way. Crape weepers. There’s a medium in all things. Grey. National school. I seen him do that
in Stockholm. The octave. Squarepushing up against a backdoor. )_

SECOND WATCH: Prevention of cruelty to animals. Old Glynn fifty quid a year. Eggs on the bottles. _

Warmth showered gently over him, cowing his flesh. —I know, M’Coy said. Cider. Long long long rest. Fergus now
     And pierce. Quarter mourning. What for that, says Mr Dixon, but before he came over farmer Nicholas
that was a eunuch had him properly gelded by a college of doctors who
were no better off than himself. About noon. Then he read the letter again: twice. —He is sitting with Tim Healy, J. _Sufflaminandus sum. _Tell him,_ says he, _I dare him,_ says he, _and I doubledare him
to send you round here again or if he does,_ says he, _I’ll have him
summonsed up before the court, so I will, for trading without a
licence. He spat blank. Sister? Sister? I am sure she was crossed
in love by her eyes. He wears dark velvet hose and silverbuckled pumps. Flood of warm jamjam lickitup secretness flowed to flow in music
out, in desire, dark to lick flow invading. Though a
wellpreserved man of no little stamina, if a trifle prone to baldness,
there was something spurious in the cut of his jib that suggested a
jail delivery and it required no violent stretch of imagination to
associate such a weirdlooking specimen with the oakum and treadmill
fraternity. I cooked
good Irish stew. Mr O’Madden Burke fell
back with grace on his umbrella, feigning a gasp. Babylon. A housekeeper of one of those fellows
if you could pick it out of her. Source of life. Blood always needed. There have been cases of shipwreck and
somnambulism in my client’s family. Those farmers are always grumbling. Which hearing young Stephen was a marvellous glad man and he
averred that he who stealeth from the poor lendeth to the Lord for he
was of a wild manner when he was drunken and that he was now in that
taking it appeared eftsoons. From his arm a folded dustcoat,
a stick and an umbrella dangled to his stride. Stephen went down Bedford row, the handle of the ash clacking against
his shoulderblade. An opening was all was
wanted. A dark horse. Ruth red
him, love led on with will to wander, loth to leave. Silence, all. —That so? M’Coy said. )_ He employs a
mechanical device to frustrate the sacred ends of nature. )_ Here? _(He squirms. No wind could lift
those waves, grey metal, poisonous foggy waters. )_
Who’ll hang Judas Iscariot?

_(H. Bathwater too. Drawing back his head and gazing far from beneath
his vailed eyelids he saw the bright fawn skin shine in the glare, the
braided drums. What proposal did Bloom, diambulist, father of Milly, somnambulist,
make to Stephen, noctambulist?

To pass in repose the hours intervening between Thursday (proper) and
Friday (normal) on an extemporised cubicle in the apartment immediately
above the kitchen and immediately adjacent to the sleeping apartment of
his host and hostess. —I was. House of Keys. God, we simply must dress the character. )_ She’s drunk. Abnegation?

In virtue of a) acquaintance initiated in September 1903 in the
establishment of George Mesias, merchant tailor and outfitter, 5 Eden
Quay, b) hospitality extended and received in kind, reciprocated and
reappropriated in person, c) comparative youth subject to impulses of
ambition and magnanimity, colleagual altruism and amorous egoism, d)
extraracial attraction, intraracial inhibition, supraracial
prerogative, e) an imminent provincial musical tour, common current
expenses, net proceeds divided. Speaking to me. —Can you do them yourself? Stephen asked. Glimpses of the moon. _And what star is that,
Poldy?_ says she. —See if you can do anything with that, he said. Bugger off, Harry. And from her arms. Cousin Stephen, you will never be a saint. Mr Dedalus thought and nodded. What advantages attended shaving by night?

A softer beard: a softer brush if intentionally allowed to remain from
shave to shave in its agglutinated lather: a softer skin if
unexpectedly encountering female acquaintances in remote places at
incustomary hours: quiet reflections upon the course of the day: a
cleaner sensation when awaking after a fresher sleep since matutinal
noises, premonitions and perturbations, a clattered milkcan, a
postman’s double knock, a paper read, reread while lathering,
relathering the same spot, a shock, a shoot, with thought of aught he
sought though fraught with nought might cause a faster rate of shaving
and a nick on which incision plaster with precision cut and humected
and applied adhered: which was to be done. Gaily they went
past before his cool unfriendly eyes, not quickly. HOPPY HOLOHAN: Good old Bloom! There’s nobody like him after all. Blackedged notepaper. Wife a good cook and washer. _Demimondaines_ nicely handsome sparkling
of diamonds very amiable costumed. Who will we do it on? I
pick the fellow in black. Rumpled
stockings, it may be, possibly is, a foible of mine but still it’s a
thing I simply hate to see. Ængus of the birds. )_ Who? Black panther. But life is the great
teacher. One time I could read a book in the
dark, manner of speaking. Making for the museum gate with long windy steps he lifted his eyes. _(The Siamese twins, Philip Drunk and Philip Sober, two Oxford dons
with lawnmowers, appear in the window embrasure. They waited still, their knees jogging, till they had turned and were
passing along the tramtracks. Here I am. Toss
off a glass of brandy neat while you’d say knife. —I see, the professor said. Too
slow for Boylan, blazes Boylan, impatience Boylan, joggled the mare. Corny Kelleher, asquint,
drawls at the horse. —So I am, Ben Warrior laughed. The sluggish cream wound curdling spirals through her tea. Doctor Whack. Remember: rosiny ropes, ships’
lanterns. Everything on it?
Bread and butter, four, sugar, spoon, her cream. Lucky Molly got over hers lightly. A shiver of the trees,
signal, the evening wind. Does really. I am the sacrificial butter. And to the solemn
court of Green street there came sir Frederick the Falconer. —We are going the pace, I think, Martin Cunningham said. No admittance except on business. Father Conmee sat in a corner of the tramcar, a blue ticket tucked with
care in the eye of one plump kid glove, while four shillings, a
sixpence and five pennies chuted from his other plump glovepalm into
his purse. Street of harlots. Sermon by the very reverend John Conmee S. PADDY LEONARD: Stage Irishman!

BLOOM: What railway opera is like a tramline in Gibraltar? The Rows of
Casteele. By the way no harm. The note of
banishment, banishment from the heart, banishment from home, sounds
uninterruptedly from _The Two Gentlemen of Verona_ onward till Prospero
breaks his staff, buries it certain fathoms in the earth and drowns his
book. Tell him I’m Boylan with impatience. Little sweetheart come and kiss me. Molly wanting to do it at the window. What considerations rendered departure desirable?

The attractive character of certain localities in Ireland and abroad,
as represented in general geographical maps of polychrome design or in
special ordnance survey charts by employment of scale numerals and
hachures. —E. Better write it here. John Henry Menton stared at him for an instant without moving. Lot of thanks I get. What did Bloom do at the range?

He removed the saucepan to the left hob, rose and carried the iron
kettle to the sink in order to tap the current by turning the faucet to
let it flow. No lard for them. Why more abnegation than jealousy, less envy than equanimity?

From outrage (matrimony) to outrage (adultery) there arose nought but
outrage (copulation) yet the matrimonial violator of the matrimonially
violated had not been outraged by the adulterous violator of the
adulterously violated. Patriotism, sorrow for the dead, music, future of the race. He handed the sheet silently
over the dirty glass screen. Wrongfully
condemned. Hell upon earth it is. Shut the book quick. Cute as a shithouse rat. )_

KITTY: _(Coughs behind her hand. Mr Dedalus, staring from the empty fireplace at Ned Lambert’s quizzing
face, asked of it sourly:

—Agonising Christ, wouldn’t it give you a heartburn on your arse?

Ned Lambert, seated on the table, read on:

—_Or again, note the meanderings of some purling rill as it babbles on
its way, tho’ quarrelling with the stony obstacles, to the tumbling
waters of Neptune’s blue domain, ’mid mossy banks, fanned by gentlest
zephyrs, played on by the glorious sunlight or ’neath the shadows cast
o’er its pensive bosom by the overarching leafage of the giants of the
forest_. For
those words, Stephen: love’s bitter mystery. After two. T. —Well, says the citizen, what’s the latest from the scene of action?
What did those tinkers in the city hall at their caucus meeting decide
about the Irish language?

O’Nolan, clad in shining armour, low bending made obeisance to the
puissant and high and mighty chief of all Erin and did him to wit of
that which had befallen, how that the grave elders of the most obedient
city, second of the realm, had met them in the tholsel, and there,
after due prayers to the gods who dwell in ether supernal, had taken
solemn counsel whereby they might, if so be it might be, bring once
more into honour among mortal men the winged speech of the seadivided
Gael. A child renamed Padney Socks she shook with shocks
her moneybox: counted his three free moneypenny buttons, one, tloo,
tlee: a doll, a boy, a sailor she cast away: blond, born of two dark,
she had blond ancestry, remote, a violation, Herr Hauptmann Hainau,
Austrian army, proximate, a hallucination, lieutenant Mulvey, British
navy. Give us a
ditty. Here. Daughter working the machine in the
parlour. Anyhow in he rolled after his successful
libation-_cum_-potation, introducing an atmosphere of drink into the
_soirée_, boisterously trolling, like a veritable son of a seacook:

     —The biscuits was as hard as brass
     And the beef as salt as Lot’s wife’s arse. Feel fresh then all the day. Torry and Alexander last year. He signed to the waiting jarvey who chucked at the reins and set on
towards Lord Edward street. Paying game. 15. —For near a month, man, before it came off. So I saw there was going to be a bit of a dust. And were
they good boys at school? O. He believed
in animal heat. _The Hidden Life of Christ_ (black boards). —Do you mean to fly in the face of the tradition of three centuries?
John Eglinton’s carping voice asked. No, sir. E. : who am I?

—I mean, for Willie Hughes, Mr Best said, amending his gloss easily. Wise
child that knows her father, Dedalus said. Guinea to a goosegog. _(Thirtytwo workmen, wearing rosettes, from all the counties of
Ireland, under the guidance of Derwan the builder, construct the new
Bloomusalem. But he delayed to clear the chair: her striped petticoat, tossed soiled
linen: and lifted all in an armful on to the foot of the bed. _ But then
if he didn’t know only make it awkward for him. Nuns with whitewashed faces, cool coifs
and their rosaries going up and down, vindictive too for what they
can’t get. Who will woo you?

Read the skies. Don’t maul them pieces,
young one. THEODORE PUREFOY: _(In fishingcap and oilskin jacket. Not true. Live
axle drives are souped. Buzz. Springers. I see. BLOOM: _(Turns to the gallery. What do you think really of that hermetic crowd, the opal
hush poets: A. Yours? Mead of our fathers for the _Übermensch. —Dedalus has it, Buck Mulligan said. Who could count them? Never know what you find. Dwarf’s
body, weak as putty, in a whitelined deal box. Si sang _’Twas rank and
fame_: in Ned Lambert’s ’twas. All human
history moves towards one great goal, the manifestation of God. Who’s astanding this here do? Proud possessor of damnall. That’ll be all right. )_ Spoke to me. J. Scratch the sole of my
foot. He put his hand in a pocket anyhow not with the idea of
finding any food there but thinking he might lend him anything up to a
bob or so in lieu so that he might endeavour at all events and get
sufficient to eat but the result was in the negative for, to his
chagrin, he found his cash missing. Bloom looped, unlooped, noded, disnoded. Trilling, trilling: Idolores. Sometimes Molly and Milly together. —Is that he? Haines asked, twisting round in his seat. Is this old wisdom? He waits to hear from
me. Molly spitting them out. —Put it there, citizen, says Joe. They acted according to their lights. If I
net five guineas with those ads. You
never seen me in the mantrap with a married highlander, says I. Imitate pa. She had interrogated constantly at varying intervals
as to the correct method of writing the capital initial of the name of
a city in Canada, Quebec. _(She points. What will I take now? He drew his watch. The greyeyed goddess who bends over the boy Adonis, stooping
to conquer, as prologue to the swelling act, is a boldfaced Stratford
wench who tumbles in a cornfield a lover younger than herself. _Let my epitaph be. The
likes of her! Stag that one is! Stubborn as a mule! And her walking
with two fellows the one time, Kilbride, the enginedriver, and
lancecorporal Oliphant. _(Virag unscrews his head in a trice and holds it under his arm. The landlord has the prior claim. —How interesting! a refined accent said in the gloom. _

_Snakes of river fog creep slowly. The sister of the wife of
the wild man of Borneo has just come to town. This vile hypocrite,
bronzed with infamy, is the white bull mentioned in the Apocalypse. The thought that the other chap
pays best sauce in the world. Whether these be sins or virtues
old Nobodaddy will tell us at doomsday leet. Lapwing
be. Looks so forlorn. And he
showed them glistering coins of the tribute and goldsmith notes the
worth of two pound nineteen shilling that he had, he said, for a song
which he writ. Ned Lambert it
is. )_ The lady goes a pace a pace
and the coachman goes a trot a trot and the gentleman goes a gallop a
gallop a gallop a gallop. _(He fumbles
again and takes out and hands her two crowns. Brightly the keys, all twinkling, linked, all harpsichording,
called to a voice to sing the strain of dewy morn, of youth, of love’s
leavetaking, life’s, love’s morn. Handel. And
a letter for you. _(He looks round him. Wait a
moment. Tap. —Whatever statement you make, says Joe, will be taken down in evidence
against you. If she saw that magic lure in his eyes there
would be no holding back for her. That will be worth seeing, faith. Val
Dillon was lord mayor. So Mr Justice Madden in his
_Diary of Master William Silence_ has found the hunting terms. O’Molloy said, letting the pages he held slip
limply back on the file. Deux
irlandais, nous, Irlande, vous savez ah, oui!_ She thought you wanted a
cheese _hollandais_. And Gerty, rapt in thought, scarce saw or heard
her companions or the twins at their boyish gambols or the gentleman
off Sandymount green that Cissy Caffrey called the man that was so like
himself passing along the strand taking a short walk. Still: but an itch of
death is in them, to tell me in my ear a maudlin tale, urge me to wreak
their will. I seen queer
things too, ups and downs. —Hello, Simon, Father Cowley said. Yes, joy it must be. The chestnuts that shaded us were in bloom: the air
drooped with their persuasive odour and with pollen floating by us. It’s so hard to find one who. Jolly
old woman. Wallop. Act speech. A small gin, sir. Photo’s papli, by all that’s gorgeous. Tip. m. A hocuspocus of
conflicting evidence that candidly you couldn’t remotely. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. Better where she is down there: away. Tears gushed from the eyes of the
dissipated host. Yes, I
suppose, at once. —We’ll see you again, Haines said, turning as Stephen walked up the
path and smiling at wild Irish. Ah yes! of course. —Our mutual friend’s stories are like himself, Mr Bloom _apropos_ of
knives remarked to his _confidante sotto voce_. Am I like that? See ourselves
as others see us. I. E. _Omnis caro ad te veniet_. _(Carelessly. Great
nationalist meeting in Borris-in-Ossory. Stale. Molly and Floey Dillon linked under the
lilactree, laughing. _ And he after stuffing himself till he’s fit to burst. Did he depict the scene verbally for his guest to see?

He preferred himself to see another’s face and listen to another’s
words by which potential narration was realised and kinetic temperament
relieved. Right. Lozenge and comfit manufacturer to His
Majesty the King. Messrs Pick and Pocket have power of
attorney. First night when first I saw her at Mat Dillon’s in Terenure. THE CROPPY BOY: _(The ropenoose round his neck, gripes in his issuing
bowels with both hands. *    *    *


A onelegged sailor crutched himself round MacConnell’s corner, skirting
Rabaiotti’s icecream car, and jerked himself up Eccles street. Even their wax model
Raymonde I visited daily to admire her cobweb hose and stick of rhubarb
toe, as worn in Paris. Martin is trying to get the youngster into Artane. Senhor Enrique Flor presided at
the organ with his wellknown ability and, in addition to the prescribed
numbers of the nuptial mass, played a new and striking arrangement of
_Woodman, spare that tree_ at the conclusion of the service. BLOOM: _(His head under the lamp, pulls the chain. Drumont, famous journalist, Drumont, know what he called queen
Victoria? Old hag with the yellow teeth. He held the bowl aloft and intoned:

—_Introibo ad altare Dei_. To Wexford, we are the boys of Wexford, he would. —I hope Mr Dedalus will work out his theory for the enlightenment of
the public. At least that’s my idea for
what it’s worth. Did he see only a second coincidence in the second scene narrated to
him, described by the narrator as _A Pisgah Sight of Palestine_ or _The
Parable of the Plums_?

It, with the preceding scene and with others unnarrated but existent by
implication, to which add essays on various subjects or moral apothegms
(e. —O, yes, Mr Bloom said. Mr Best eagerquietly lifted his book to say:

—That’s very interesting because that brother motive, don’t you know,
we find also in the old Irish myths. Bald deaf Pat brought quite flat pad ink. Wouldn’t mind being a
waiter in a swell hotel. —Him, sir. Tastes? They say you can’t taste wines with
your eyes shut or a cold in the head. In the darkmans clip and kiss. —With it, Simon. —You remind me of Antisthenes, the professor said, a disciple of
Gorgias, the sophist. The others turned. Near death’s door. I have often thought since on looking back over that strange time that
it was that small act, trivial in itself, that striking of that match,
that determined the whole aftercourse of both our lives. 4. —Two apples a penny! Two for a penny!

His gaze passed over the glazed apples serried on her stand. Big spanishy eyes goggling
at nothing. _Fuit Ilium!_ The sack of windy Troy. Und alle Schiffe brücken. Cruel. all
for me is out. Good job I let
off there behind the wall coming out of Dignam’s. Percentage of salted horses. Want to. P. I
conceive you, says Mr Dixon. Would anyone wish that mouth for her kiss? How do you know? Why did you
write it then?

RHYMES AND REASONS


Mouth, south. —And what is death, he asked, your mother’s or yours or my own? You saw
only your mother die. Fay, T. Where were the several members of the company which with Bloom that day
at the bidding of that peal had travelled from Sandymount in the south
to Glasnevin in the north?

Martin Cunningham (in bed), Jack Power (in bed), Simon Dedalus (in
bed), Ned Lambert (in bed), Tom Kernan (in bed), Joe Hynes (in bed),
John Henry Menton (in bed), Bernard Corrigan (in bed), Patsy Dignam (in
bed), Paddy Dignam (in the grave). Symbol of the apostles in the mass
for pope Marcellus, the voices blended, singing alone loud in
affirmation: and behind their chant the vigilant angel of the church
militant disarmed and menaced her heresiarchs. )_

THE ARTANE ORPHANS:

     You hig, you hog, you dirty dog!
     You think the ladies love you!

 THE PRISON GATE GIRLS:

     If you see Kay
     Tell him he may
     See you in tea
     Tell him from me. I’m parched. Embroider. Two bar
entrance, soldiers half price. )_ My old dad too
was a J. Shouldering the lamp he staggers away through the crowd with his
flaring cresset. in the rough sands of the sea. His garden Major Gamble calls Mount Jerome. The belly is the smoothest. As per usual somebody’s nose was out of joint about
the boy that had the bicycle off the London bridge road always riding
up and down in front of her window. Fancy being his wife. Rachel, is it? No. Ought to be places for
women. Mr Power asked:

—How is the concert tour getting on, Bloom?

—O, very well, Mr Bloom said. It’s the very
essence of Wilde, don’t you know. Look at it other way round. France produces the finest
flower of corruption in Mallarmé but the desirable life is revealed
only to the poor of heart, the life of Homer’s Phæacians. Friend of the family. Slung her hook, she did. Under the umbrella appears Mrs Cunningham in Merry Widow hat and
kimono gown. And
the Saviour was a jew and his father was a jew. Mangy ravenous brute sniffing and sneezing all
round the place and scratching his scabs. )_

BELLO: Die and be damned to you if you have any sense of decency or
grace about you. Red face: grey now. My bust developed four inches in three weeks, reports Mrs Gus
Rublin with photo. I was a strapping young gossoon at that time, I tell
you. Father Coffey. Is Cissy your
sweetheart?

—Nao, tearful Tommy said. What fractions of phrases did the lecture of those five whole words
evoke?

Tomorrow will be a week that I received. Dark caves of
carpet shops, big man, Turko the terrible, seated crosslegged, smoking
a coiled pipe. But that vile decoction which has ruined so many hearths and homes had
cast its shadow over her childhood days. What reason did Stephen give for declining Bloom’s offer?

That he was hydrophobe, hating partial contact by immersion or total by
submersion in cold water, (his last bath having taken place in the
month of October of the preceding year), disliking the aqueous
substances of glass and crystal, distrusting aquacities of thought and
language. Victory of outsider _Throwaway_ recalls Derby of ’92 when Capt. Hee hee hee. With my eyeglass in my ocular. There was the allimportant question and she was
dying to know was he a married man or a widower who had lost his wife
or some tragedy like the nobleman with the foreign name from the land
of song had to have her put into a madhouse, cruel only to be kind. Why? They shine in the dark, perhaps, the tips. Dead noise. —What time is that? asked Blazes Boylan. —The turf, Lenehan put in. Blown in from the bay. Save. Dying to embrace
her in his shirt. —Do you ever see anything of Mrs Beaufoy? Mr Bloom asked. Pistachios!

—Aha! cried he of the pleasant countenance. The maids of honour, Miss Larch Conifer and Miss Spruce
Conifer, sisters of the bride, wore very becoming costumes in the same
tone, a dainty _motif_ of plume rose being worked into the pleats in a
pinstripe and repeated capriciously in the jadegreen toques in the form
of heron feathers of paletinted coral. )_
Hm. Why she waved her hand. You horrid thing!

And flushed yet more (you horrid!), more goldenly. Pflaaaap! Not half. Is that best side of her face?
They always know. ALEXANDER KEYES: When will we have our own house of keys?

BLOOM: I stand for the reform of municipal morals and the plain ten
commandments. _

By the way how did he find that out? He died in his sleep. But he might take my leg for a lamppost. Wonder how it first struck him. His
scarlet beak blazes within the aureole of his straw hat. Transparent stockings, stretched to breaking point. Those lovely
seaside girls. _Moi
faire_, she said, _Tous les messieurs_. The contrary no. How much and how did he propose to pay for this country residence?

As per prospectus of the Industrious Foreign Acclimatised Nationalised
Friendly Stateaided Building Society (incorporated 1874), a maximum of
£ 60 per annum, being 1/6 of an assured income, derived from giltedged
securities, representing at 5 % simple interest on capital of £ 1200
(estimate of price at 20 years’ purchase), of which 1/3 to be paid on
acquisition and the balance in the form of annual rent, viz. He is right. —The leaning of sophists towards the bypaths of apocrypha is a constant
quantity, John Eglinton detected. _(He murmurs. Our. You remember
me, sir Leo, when you were in number seven. All quiet on Howth now. Plump. What spectacle confronted them when they, first the host, then the
guest, emerged silently, doubly dark, from obscurity by a passage from
the rere of the house into the penumbra of the garden?

The heaventree of stars hung with humid nightblue fruit. THE CRIER: _(Loudly. The home without
potted meat is incomplete. )_ Hanging Harry,
your Majesty, the Mersey terror. Follow me up to Carlow. BELLO: _(Peremptorily. )_ Puss puss puss puss! _(He
sighs, draws back and stares sideways down with dropping underjaw. )_
Some trouble is on here. They could easily have big establishments whole thing
quite painless out of all the taxes give every child born five quid at
compound interest up to twentyone five per cent is a hundred shillings
and five tiresome pounds multiply by twenty decimal system encourage
people to put by money save hundred and ten and a bit twentyone years
want to work it out on paper come to a tidy sum more than you think. Lies. Have no fear. —Hoho, we will, Ben Dollard yodled jollily. Besides there was absolution so long as you didn’t do
the other thing before being married and there ought to be women
priests that would understand without your telling out and Cissy
Caffrey too sometimes had that dreamy kind of dreamy look in her eyes
so that she too, my dear, and Winny Rippingham so mad about actors’
photographs and besides it was on account of that other thing coming on
the way it did. Keeps a hotel now. Pooh! A _livre!_ cries Monsieur Lynch. —The soul has been before stricken mortally, a poison poured in the
porch of a sleeping ear. By cock, she was to blame. Fishgluey slime (_her heaving embonpoint!_). I hope
I’m not. _(Jacky Caffrey, hunted by Tommy Caffrey, runs full tilt against
Bloom. Mr
President, you come long and help me save our sisters dear. —Who has not? Stephen said. )_ O, get out, you skunk! Hold your tongue! Speak
when you’re spoken to. Must be his deathday. They used to
drive a stake of wood through his heart in the grave. See what I meant, see? O,
that’s all right. By a woman who
was no better than she should be. Flowers of
idleness. Lotus ladies
tend them i’the eyes, their pineal glands aglow. I understand you
to suggest there was misconduct with one of the brothers. He left her and walked on. )_ When first I
saw. Brave. —Italian? Haines said. p: up. A wild
piece of goods. And in your ear, my friend, you will not think who
met us as we left the field. Open it. Moisture about gives long sight
perhaps. Five guineas
about. By God, he had the little kipper down in the county Carlow he
was telling me. What a brute he had been! At it again? A fair unsullied soul had called
to him and, wretch that he was, how had he answered? An utter cad he
had been! He of all men! But there was an infinite store of mercy in
those eyes, for him too a word of pardon even though he had erred and
sinned and wandered. Her hat and head sank. Wear the heart out of a stone, that. Martin of Todi and S. M’Coy
and Stephen Dedalus B. Done. Her petticoat. —Twentyeight. Dressing, undressing. See. One who has faded
into impalpability through death, through absence, through change of
manners. )_

FREDDY: Ah, ma, you’re dragging me along!

SUSY: Mamma, the beeftea is fizzing over!

SHAKESPEARE: _(With paralytic rage. The Irish
Caruso-Garibaldi was in superlative form and his stentorian notes were
heard to the greatest advantage in the timehonoured anthem sung as only
our citizen can sing it. Caraway seed to carry away. Insolent driver. Vain: very. You are your
own master, it seems to me. )_ It is nothing, but still, a relic of poor
mamma. A VOICE: Swear!

_(Bloom clenches his fists and crawls forward, a bowieknife between his
teeth. He shot his bolt, I can tell you! Foot to foot, knee
to knee, belly to belly, bubs to breast! He’s no eunuch. Or no. There was none to come up to her for fun. —Did you finish it? he asked. What had prevented him from completing a topical song (music by R. And we one hour and two hours and three hours in Connery’s
sitting civil waiting for pints apiece. Dogdays. God: noise in the
street: very peripatetic. He took a cigarette from the open case. —He rode down through Dame walk, the refined accent said, if my memory
serves me. And so forth and
so on. org/contact

Section 4. Penrose. A sire in Ultonian Antrim bade it
him. Quite natural. God made the country man the
tune. Shema Israel Adonai
Elohenu_. This meanwhile this good sister stood by the door and begged them at
the reverence of Jesu our alther liege Lord to leave their wassailing
for there was above one quick with child, a gentle dame, whose time
hied fast. )_

THE TORCHBEARERS: Hooray!

_(Several wellknown burgesses, city magnates and freemen of the city
shake hands with Bloom and congratulate him. Blue jacket and yellow
cap. But Mario was said to be the picture of Our
Saviour. )_

JOHN HOWARD PARNELL: _(Raises the royal standard. Maas was the boy. After all there’s a lot in that vegetarian fine flavour of things from
the earth garlic of course it stinks after Italian organgrinders crisp
of onions mushrooms truffles. On my way. For if my master he did hear
     He’d make it a sorry ball. _Laurence Bloomfield in Ireland_ by William Allingham (second edition,
green cloth, gilt trefoil design, previous owner’s name on recto of
flyleaf erased). A waiter is he. I’m the best o’cook. Hunger
toothache. Let me say one thing. The lost armada is his jeer in _Love’s Labour Lost_. The mansion of the Kildares was in Thomas court. Simon Dedalus takes him
off to a tee with his eyes screwed up. Ambidexterity is also latent. Virag. Psst! Any chance of your wash. Night sky, moon, violet,
colour of Molly’s new garters. )_ Grhahute!

THE CHILDREN: Where’s the great light?

THE IDIOT: _(Gobbling. On the contrary that stab in the
back touch was quite in keeping with those italianos though candidly he
was none the less free to admit those icecreamers and friers in the
fish way not to mention the chip potato variety and so forth over in
little Italy there near the Coombe were sober thrifty hardworking
fellows except perhaps a bit too given to pothunting the harmless
necessary animal of the feline persuasion of others at night so as to
have a good old succulent tuckin with garlic _de rigueur_ off him or
her next day on the quiet and, he added, on the cheap. Was the narration otherwise unaltered by modifications?

Absolutely. —Yes, _Evening Telegraph_ here, Mr Bloom phoned from the inner office. —Who may he be? Mr Dedalus asked. Turning, he scanned the shore south, his feet sinking again slowly in
new sockets. It’s the white of the eye brings that out not
so much the pupil. Yes. J. What final visual impression was communicated to him by the mirror?

The optical reflection of several inverted volumes improperly arranged
and not in the order of their common letters with scintillating titles
on the two bookshelves opposite. But lots of them can’t kick
the beam, I think. _(A rocket rushes up the sky and bursts. THE HOOF: Smell my hot goathide. )_ Professor Bloom is a finished
example of the new womanly man. Beginning to tell on him now: that backache of his, I fear. J. Beneath her skirt appear her late
husband’s everyday trousers and turnedup boots, large eights. )_ Quick! Quick! Where’s my
augur’s rod? _(He runs to the piano and takes his ashplant, beating his
foot in tripudium. At the Dolphin they halted to allow the ambulance car to gallop past
them for Jervis street. Here he ponders things that were not: what Cæsar would have lived to do
had he believed the soothsayer: what might have been: possibilities of
the possible as possible: things not known: what name Achilles bore
when he lived among women. That was the first night. )_ My master’s voice!

JOHN O’CONNELL: Burial docket letter number U. Beside him again. Tom Rochford, seeing the eyes of lady Dudley
fixed on him, took his thumbs quickly out of the pockets of his claret
waistcoat and doffed his cap to her. And whereas on the sixteenth day of the month of the oxeyed goddess and
in the third week after the feastday of the Holy and Undivided Trinity,
the daughter of the skies, the virgin moon being then in her first
quarter, it came to pass that those learned judges repaired them to the
halls of law. Armstrong looked round
at his classmates, silly glee in profile. On her feet are jewelled
toerings. Hm. On land, meridional, a bispherical
moon, revealed in imperfect varying phases of lunation through the
posterior interstice of the imperfectly occluded skirt of a carnose
negligent perambulating female, a pillar of the cloud by day. Why was the host (secret infidel) silent?

He weighed the possible evidences for and against ritual murder: the
incitations of the hierarchy, the superstition of the populace, the
propagation of rumour in continued fraction of veridicity, the envy of
opulence, the influence of retaliation, the sporadic reappearance of
atavistic delinquency, the mitigating circumstances of fanaticism,
hypnotic suggestion and somnambulism. I’ll make that animal smell hell, says he, with
the help of that good pizzle my father left me. , for example. The husband was a captain or an
officer. Man, now fierce angry,
strikes woman’s fat yadgana. Success for
us is the death of the intellect and of the imagination. Jake Crane, Creole
Sue, Dove Campbell, Abe Kirschner, do your coughing with your mouths
shut. )_ Crybabby! Crocodile tears!

_(Bloom, broken, closely veiled for the sacrifice, sobs, his face to
the earth. —A—sudden—at—the—moment—though—from—lingering—illness—often—previously—
expectorated—demise, Lenehan added. Then here the name. AN ELECTOR: Three times three for our future chief magistrate!

_(The aurora borealis of the torchlight procession leaps. —See? he said. —I know, Edy Boardman said none too amiably with an arch glance from
her shortsighted eyes. Still an idea behind it. 1. Double four. Best of Best brothers. Wetherup always said
that. I don’t know who he is. Same style of beauty. I have reasons. Old Whatwhat. Is it in the city?

—O, yes, Blazes Boylan said. And says Lenehan that knows a bit of the lingo:

—_Conspuez les Anglais! Perfide Albion!_

He said and then lifted he in his rude great brawny strengthy hands the
medher of dark strong foamy ale and, uttering his tribal slogan _Lamh
Dearg Abu_, he drank to the undoing of his foes, a race of mighty
valorous heroes, rulers of the waves, who sit on thrones of alabaster
silent as the deathless gods. James Stephens’ idea was the best. —What’s that? Myles Crawford said with a start. And then he added with rather gallowsbird humour considering his
alleged end:

     —As bad as old Antonio,
     For he left me on my ownio. Idle mockery. Won a bit on the races. Wouldn’t let them within the bawl of an ass. ZOE: _(In sudden alarm. He counted the creases of rucked leather wherein
another’s foot had nested warm. On O’Connell bridge many persons observed the grave deportment and gay
apparel of Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c. Munro and H. And do you know why?

He frowned sternly on the bright air. Sand in the Red Sea done that. Eyes all over them. Stephen jerked his thumb towards the window, saying:

—That is God. I believe, O Lord, help my unbelief. —Who is Junius? says J. —Do you mean he died so? Mr Best asked with slight concern. At first. The tall form of long John Fanning filled the doorway where he stood. )_

MRS CUNNINGHAM: _(Sings. —We have all been there, Martin Cunningham said broadly. The tribune’s words, howled and scattered to the
four winds. Car near there now. Think in my stom. Not
annoyed then? What does she say?


Dear Henry

I got your last letter to me and thank you very much for it. BLOOM: _(Rushes to the hall, rushes back. Drink, man, an udderful! Mother’s
milk, Purefoy, the milk of human kin, milk too of those burgeoning
stars overhead rutilant in thin rainvapour, punch milk, such as those
rioters will quaff in their guzzling den, milk of madness, the
honeymilk of Canaan’s land. _Faugh a ballagh!_ Out of that, bloody curse to you! Others in
vessels, bit of a handkerchief sail, pitched about like snuff at a wake
when the stormy winds do blow. Yes. Dringdring! And two streets off another locking it into a pyx. Won’t you come to Sandymount,
     Madeline the mare?

Rhythm begins, you see. His art, more than the art of feudalism as Walt Whitman called
it, is the art of surfeit. There is no time to lose. Walk along a
strand, strange land, come to a city gate, sentry there, old ranker
too, old Tweedy’s big moustaches, leaning on a long kind of a spear. So far as he could see he
was rather pale in the face so that it occurred to him as highly
advisable to get a conveyance of some description which would answer in
their then condition, both of them being e. Half ten and eleven. The old bank of Ireland was over the way till the time of the union and
the original jews’ temple was here too before they built their
synagogue over in Adelaide road. Burst open. Street of harlots. He made
improper overtures to me to misconduct myself at half past four p. The pillar of the cloud appears. Choking with bloody foolery. —Yes, says J. —History, Stephen said, is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake. The flag fell and, huuh! off, scamper, the mare ran
out freshly with O. Brunswick street. The gods too are ever kind, Lenehan said. The thoughts. Is that Canada swindle case on today?

The telephone whirred inside. )_

FATHER MALACHI O’FLYNN: _Introibo ad altare diaboli. Handsome building. —Still, says Bloom, on account of the poor woman, I mean his wife. The word _Sums_ was written on the headline. For the
hostess: disintegration of obsession, acquisition of correct Italian
pronunciation. Through the open window of the church the fragrant incense was wafted
and with it the fragrant names of her who was conceived without stain
of original sin, spiritual vessel, pray for us, honourable vessel, pray
for us, vessel of singular devotion, pray for us, mystical rose. ”
     
     I can’t come back and I won’t come back
     Without my schoolfellows all. Have
you got that? Right. —Who are you laughing at? says Bob Doran. _(A dark mercurialised face appears, leading a veiled figure. The artistic. _

—Poor old Goodwin was the pianist that night, Father Cowley reminded
them. —O, Mr Bloom, how do you do?

—O, how do you do, Mrs Breen?

—No use complaining. Buck Mulligan frowned at the lather on his razorblade. The curving balustrade: smoothsliding Mincius. Gee!

He poked Mr O’Madden Burke mildly in the spleen. His hand scrawled a dry pen signature beside his grog. It’s quite simple. Not even Molly. Jack Fleming
embezzling to gamble then smuggled off to America. Nice touch. I asked
before you. Couldn’t swallow it all however. —There are great times coming, Mary. It is. Under their dropped lids his eyes found the tiny bow of the
leather headband inside his high grade ha. An armless pair of them flop wrestling, growling, in
maimed sodden playfight. I
know his face. Buttoning it down, his chin lifted, he
saw the image of Marie Kendall, charming soubrette, beside the two
puckers. Holohan told me. E. But perhaps
I am anticipating?

He caught himself in the act: looked at all: refrained. —Find out, miss Douce retorted, leaving her spyingpoint. I know you’ve a Roman collar. Hurray for the Goddamned idiot! Hray! No-one
saw: tell no-one. If he must dispense his balm
of Gilead in nostrums and apothegms of dubious taste to restore to
health a generation of unfledged profligates let his practice consist
better with the doctrines that now engross him. _ Excites them also
when they’re. Billington executed the awful murderer Toad Smith. In fact
we are just bringing out a collection of prize stories of which I am
the inventor, something that is an entirely new departure. Cleverever outofitnow. With what success had he attempted direct instruction?

She followed not all, a part of the whole, gave attention with interest
comprehended with surprise, with care repeated, with greater difficulty
remembered, forgot with ease, with misgiving reremembered, rerepeated
with error. —About a fortnight ago, sir?

—Yes, Mr Bloom said. —Yes, Mr Bloom said. Good idea if you’re stuck. The rest shall keep as they are. SOPHOMORE PLUMPS FOR OLD MAN MOSES. —Ay, now I remember, Nosey Flynn said, putting his hand in his pocket
to scratch his groin. O let him! His life
isn’t such a bed of roses. —Thank you, no, says Bloom. _Lui, c’est moi_. Till Mr Right comes along,
then meet once in a blue moon. Hats off!

_(All uncover their heads. Big stones left. The troop of bare feet was heard rushing along the hallway and
pattering up the staircase. Here. It’s only a natural
phenomenon, don’t you see, because on account of the. —It’s not fair to tease you like that, Kinch, is it? he said kindly. )_ Suppose you got up the wrong side of the bed or
came too quick with your best girl. —Do you wish me to tell you? he asked. Both. Dignam carted off. _Art thou real, my ideal?_ it was called by Louis J
Walsh, Magherafelt, and after there was something about _twilight, wilt
thou ever?_ and ofttimes the beauty of poetry, so sad in its transient
loveliness, had misted her eyes with silent tears for she felt that the
years were slipping by for her, one by one, and but for that one
shortcoming she knew she need fear no competition and that was an
accident coming down Dalkey hill and she always tried to conceal it. )_ One
pound seven. Tom Kernan strutted in. Five lines
of text and ten pages of notes about the folk and the fishgods of
Dundrum. I sacrificed to the god of
the forest. Laud we the gods
     And let our crooked smokes climb to their nostrils
     From our bless’d altars. Lily of the alley. A. Crotthers (Disc. Elk and yak, the bulls of Bashan and of Babylon, mammoth and
mastodon, they come trooping to the sunken sea, _Lacus Mortis_. Why bring
in a master of forensic eloquence like Whiteside? Sufficient for the
day is the newspaper thereof. Wonder if
he has a name. Winkle:
cockles and periwinkles. —Well, good health, Jack, says Ned. That we live after death. It has been an unusually fatiguing day, a chapter of
accidents. _

—I see, the professor said. His old fellow made his tin by selling
jalap to Zulus or some bloody swindle or other. I am in a grave predicament. People afraid of
the dark. Canvasclimbers who sailed with Drake chew their sausages among the
groundlings. Whilst speaking he produced a dangerouslooking claspknife quite in
keeping with his character and held it in the striking position. —Tell you what, M’Coy said. —_. —I’d like to give him something, she said, so I would, where I won’t
say. Improvising. I can’t look at the point of it. _

FROM THE FATHERS


It was revealed to me that those things are good which yet are
corrupted which neither if they were supremely good nor unless they
were good could be corrupted. PRIVATE CARR: _(His cap awry, advances to Stephen. Thump, thump, thump. Possibly perceiving an expression of dubiosity on their faces the
globetrotter went on, adhering to his adventures. I asked him to lay my letter before the meeting. If she had married she would have changed. Jiggedy jingle jaunty jaunty. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works. M. Just a flash
like that. Fifty yards measured. )_
Thine heart, mine love. F. Bear with a sore paw. The metal
wheels ground the gravel with a sharp grating cry and the pack of blunt
boots followed the trundled barrow along a lane of sepulchres. J. He see. God save Ireland from the likes of that bloody
mouseabout. )_ Whorusalaminyourhighhohhhh. MRS RIORDAN: _(Tears up her will. —A nation? says Bloom. )_ They challenged me to a sprint. )_ I am ruined. Needless to say poor Tommy was
not slow to voice his dismay but luckily the gentleman in black who was
sitting there by himself came gallantly to the rescue and intercepted
the ball. Valuing himself not a little upon his elegance, being indeed a proper
man of person, this talkative now applied himself to his dress with
animadversions of some heat upon the sudden whimsy of the atmospherics
while the company lavished their encomiums upon the project he had
advanced. Ireland my country. Great voice Richie Goulding said, a flush
struggling in his pale, to Bloom soon old. )_

BLOOM: _(Murmurs lovingly. Always see a fellow’s weak point in his
wife. Complimented perhaps. She’s three
days bad now. J. Heard from behind. MRS YELVERTON BARRY: Shame on him!

_(A crowd of sluts and ragamuffins surges forward. He had come nearer the edge of the sea and wet sand slapped his boots. Gasballs spinning about,
crossing each other, passing. His shadow lay over the rocks as he bent, ending. —You must have been a doaty, miss Douce made answer. T. —How, sir? Comyn asked. )_ What’s that
you’re saying about my king?

_(Edward the Seventh appears in an archway. Me? If she who
seduced me had left but the name. Tuck and turn in. Potted meats. poor little. George Lidwell held its murmur,
hearing: then laid it by, gently. Of Wexford. Twentyseventh I’ll be at his grave. )_ Ow! My foot’s asleep. It is that same bull that was sent to our
island by farmer Nicholas, the bravest cattlebreeder of them all, with
an emerald ring in his nose. )_ Exuberant female. Let us hear what you have to say of Richard and Edmund. Say pa pa pa pa pa pa pa. We subjoin a
specimen which has been rendered into English by an eminent scholar
whose name for the moment we are not at liberty to disclose though we
believe that our readers will find the topical allusion rather more
than an indication. Stream of life. O. Left one is
more sensitive, I think. Begone dull care. B. hydrochlor. For me!

CUNTY KATE: The brave and the fair. Sense of smell must be stronger too. getting him off the grand jury list
and the other give him a leg over the stile. Steak and kidney pie. Very
likely. Stephen put the hat on his
head. N. —Off with you, says Martin to the jarvey. Girl touched it. —Ay, Blazes, says Alf. Play it in the original. Celery sauce. Love that dare not speak its name. _(A male form passes down the creaking staircase and is heard taking
the waterproof and hat from the rack. Snug little room that was with the red wallpaper. )_ Sacrilege! To attempt my virtue! _(A large moist stain appears
on her robe. Bold bad girl from the town of Mullingar. An old pilgrim’s hoard, dead
treasure, hollow shells. As it was in the beginning, is now. Keep
out the damp. )_ Look! He’s white. )_

EDY BOARDMAN: _(Bickering. Ah yes. Day. Fine eyes she had, clear. Y lagging behind drew a chunk of bread from under his
foreboard, crammed it into his mouth and munched as he walked. It’s on account of the sounds it is. Blimey it
makes me kind of bleeding cry, straight, it does, when I sees her cause
I thinks of my old mashtub what’s waiting for me down Limehouse way. Trade follows the flag. _ Noble words coming. No reasonable offer
refused. ’S and plodded back as they had come. Stop! Throb always
without you and the throb always within. He halted near his daughter. I am twentytwo. Not on my breakfast. —Bosh! Stephen said rudely. What?

I. But was young Boasthard’s fear vanquished by Calmer’s words? No, for he
had in his bosom a spike named Bitterness which could not by words be
done away. Here the listener who was none other than the Scotch student, a little
fume of a fellow, blond as tow, congratulated in the liveliest fashion
with the young gentleman and, interrupting the narrative at a salient
point, having desired his visavis with a polite beck to have the
obligingness to pass him a flagon of cordial waters at the same time by
a questioning poise of the head (a whole century of polite breeding had
not achieved so nice a gesture) to which was united an equivalent but
contrary balance of the bottle asked the narrator as plainly as was
ever done in words if he might treat him with a cup of it. I want to
give the citizen the hard word about it. Handle hrim. Bantam Lyons’s yellow blacknailed fingers unrolled the baton. Bring a stranger within thy tower it
will go hard but thou wilt have the secondbest bed. THE CRIER: Mary Driscoll, scullerymaid!

_(Mary Driscoll, a slipshod servant girl, approaches. Today. A liver and white spaniel on the prowl slinks
after him, growling. Art has to reveal
to us ideas, formless spiritual essences. Yes, evening will find itself in me, without me. —Come on, Simon. But who? That was the rub. O’Molloy’s white careworn face was told that Mr Lambert was in
the warehouse with a visitor. —Thousand a year, Lambert, says Crofton or Crawford. What? God, I’ll
tell him anyhow. An article of headgear since ascertained to belong to the
much respected clerk of the crown and peace Mr George Fottrell and a
silk umbrella with gold handle with the engraved initials, crest, coat
of arms and house number of the erudite and worshipful chairman of
quarter sessions sir Frederick Falkiner, recorder of Dublin, have been
discovered by search parties in remote parts of the island
respectively, the former on the third basaltic ridge of the giant’s
causeway, the latter embedded to the extent of one foot three inches in
the sandy beach of Holeopen bay near the old head of Kinsale. That or the
customhouse. By what could such a situation be precluded?

By decease (change of state): by departure (change of place). Wonder what
he was eating. But let us bear it
as was the ancient wont. What do we care for his wife or father? I should say
that only family poets have family lives. All wheel whirl waltz twirl. Then from the starving cagework
city a horde of jerkined dwarfs, my people, with flayers’ knives,
running, scaling, hacking in green blubbery whalemeat. R. Pat took plate dish knife fork. Boys from High school are perched on the lampposts,
telegraph poles, windowsills, cornices, gutters, chimneypots, railings,
rainspouts, whistling and cheering. The request being complied with he clawed them up with a scrape. Were their views on some points divergent?

Stephen dissented openly from Bloom’s views on the importance of
dietary and civic selfhelp while Bloom dissented tacitly from Stephen’s
views on the eternal affirmation of the spirit of man in literature. K. Lenehan came forward. Lick it
off the plate, man! Get out of this. Bet to the ropes. We’re square. Lord knows what concoction. _(They move off
with slow heavy tread. Disguises, clutched at, gone, not
here. because often I
used to wet. Cut and come again. It certainly pointed a moral, the idol with
feet of clay, and then seventytwo of his trusty henchmen rounding on
him with mutual mudslinging. )_
Poor mamma’s panacea. Between the
curtains Professor Maginni inserts a leg on the toepoint of which spins
a silk hat. Glowworm’s la-amp is gleaming, love. That’s the maxim of the
law. _Ubi patria_, as we learned a
smattering of in our classical days in _Alma Mater, vita bene_. START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www. One, leaving his
mates, walked slowly on with shouldered weapon, its blade blueglancing. Vintage wine for them, the year marked on a
dusty bottle. —Literature, the press. I met a fool i’the forest. )_

THE FLYBILL: K. Haines stood at the
doorway, looking out. In short, he and the bull of Ireland
were soon as fast friends as an arse and a shirt. Jingling harnesses. Mind Maggy doesn’t pawn it on you. Musical chairs. Bass’s _Sceptre_ 3. Mother of Moses!

*    *    *


Tom Rochford took the top disk from the pile he clasped against his
claret waistcoat. Where we. I’m
hanging on to his taw now for the past fortnight and I can’t get a
penny out of him. BLOOM: _(A sweat breaking out over him. More interesting if they told you what
they were. Naminedamine. Quick warm sunlight came running from Berkeley road, swiftly, in slim
sandals, along the brightening footpath. _Roberto ruba roba sua_. Is that so? Diningroom. Bladderbags. LYNCH: Let him alone. _

—_Sacrifizio incruento,_ Stephen said smiling, swaying his ashplant in
slow swingswong from its midpoint, lightly. _

Suddenly he turned to Stephen:

—He knows you. —Amen! was responded from the doorway. He brought out of his coat a pocketbook bound by a leather thong. Turkish. Nine she had. That’s why I asked you if you wrote your poetry
in Italian. Got up to kill: on eighteen bob a week. Invent a story for
some proverb. Might chance on a pair in
the railway lost property office. She lay still. Reaping the whirlwind. _(Earnestly. It comes from the great heat, climate generally. Just the place too. Lydia for Lidwell squeak scarcely hear so ladylike the muse
unsqueaked a ray of hopk. Colours affect women’s characters, any they have. There. Light in his eyes. And he insulted us. Doctor Swift says one man in armour will beat ten men in
their shirts. Body fifty different
colours. Trained by owner to fetch and carry,
basket in mouth. We are nae
fou. Yet more Bloom stretched his
string. Other three hundred born,
washing the blood off, all are washed in the blood of the lamb, bawling
maaaaaa. We’ll put a barleystraw in
that Judas Iscariot’s ear this time. That tickles me, I must
say. Longfelt want. And two great big lovely big tears coursing down his cheeks. )_
Are you coming into the musicroom to see our new pianola? Come and I’ll
peel off. And there
was a vat of silver that was moved by craft to open in the which lay
strange fishes withouten heads though misbelieving men nie that this be
possible thing without they see it natheless they are so. Jenny Lind
soup: stock, sage, raw eggs, half pint of cream. The Denzille lane
boys. Don’t stain my brandnew sitinems. —Charming! he said in a finical sweet voice, showing his white teeth
and blinking his eyes pleasantly. Better get that lotion made up. Here’s your stick. Never about the runaway wife coming back, however much devoted to the
absentee. )_ After the
parlour mystery games and the crackers from the tree we sat on the
staircase ottoman. I must get a wash tomorrow or next day. —Can you send them by tram? Now?

A darkbacked figure under Merchants’ arch scanned books on the hawker’s
cart. The aunt always keeps plainlooking servants for Malachi. The shape is there still. —Ay, says John Wyse. Steak, kidney, liver, mashed, at meat fit for princes sat princes Bloom
and Goulding. Dearer than the whole world would she be to him and gild his
days with happiness. —Look at yourself, he said, you dreadful bard!

Stephen bent forward and peered at the mirror held out to him, cleft by
a crooked crack. )_ One, seven, eleven, and
five. Down went Tom Rochford anyhow, booky’s vest
and all, with the rope round him. L. —Well, glad to see you looking fit, he said. All for number
one. _)

BLOOM: Keep to the right, right, right. —The Lord forgive me! Mr Power said, wiping his wet eyes with his
fingers. He was a kind of sport gentleman
that went for a merryandrew or honest pickle and what belonged of
women, horseflesh or hot scandal he had it pat. Her hands were of finely
veined alabaster with tapering fingers and as white as lemonjuice and
queen of ointments could make them though it was not true that she used
to wear kid gloves in bed or take a milk footbath either. Postoffice near Reuben J’s
one and eightpence too. He inquired if it was John Bull the
political celebrity of that ilk, as it struck him, the two identical
names, as a striking coincidence. Peeping and prying into greenroom gossip of the day,
the poet’s drinking, the poet’s debts. —You’re in Dawson street, Mr Bloom said. Therefore hast thou
sinned against my light and hast made me, thy lord, to be the slave of
servants. Can you ask? Stephen, the youthful bard. Or a change of address
anyway. Ireland was
dedicated to it or whatever that. —That’ll do, game ball, Blazes Boylan said. Of course it was frosty and the
last tram. SECOND WATCH: Who are you? Do you know him?

PRIVATE CARR: _(Lurches towards the watch. BLOOM: _(Docile, gurgles. Do ptake some ptarmigan. Off her beat here. Stephen, eldest
surviving male consubstantial heir of Simon Dedalus of Cork and Dublin
and of Mary, daughter of Richard and Christina Goulding (born Grier). Plenty to see and hear and
feel yet. The waggoner marching at their head saluted. By
the provost’s wall came jauntily Blazes Boylan, stepping in tan shoes
and socks with skyblue clocks to the refrain of _My girl’s a Yorkshire
girl. The swan of Avon
has other thoughts. )_ Punarjanam
patsypunjaub! I won’t have my leg pulled. Curious she an only child, I
an only child. Just nice time to walk to Artane. 24. Five guineas a jugular. From Gibraltar by long sea long ago. —Where would I get money? Mr Dedalus said. Brimstone they called
it raining down: the cities of the plain: Sodom, Gomorrah, Edom. So on. Phantasmal mirth, folded away: muskperfumed. Buck Mulligan’s watchful eyes saw the waitress come. No jerks and multiple mucosities all over you. Underconstumble? He’ve got the
chink _ad lib_. Come here, sir! Quick!
Ready?

BLOOM: _(Trembling, beginning to obey. W. See. Dignam. To aid
gentleman in literary. O by the by that lotion. Pandemonium. _ I could. Am I going to aunt Sara’s or not? My
consubstantial father’s voice. Sleeping sickness
in the air. B. Bob Doran
falls silently into an area. THE GRANDEUR THAT WAS ROME


—Wait a moment, professor MacHugh said, raising two quiet claws. PRIVATE CARR: _(Pulls himself free and comes forward. Her shapely
fingernails reddened by the blood of squashed lice from the children’s
shirts. She
sits. _(He mumbles confidentially. And, if I don’t greatly mistake she
was Spanish too. My fireworks. —All the talents, Myles Crawford said. He holds it towards fire. By screens of lighted
windows, by equal gardens a shrill voice went crying, wailing: _Evening
Telegraph, stop press edition! Result of the Gold Cup races!_ and from
the door of Dignam’s house a boy ran out and called. The far east. And when he’s wanted not a
farthing. Molly fondling
him in her lap. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1. Anyhow she wants the money. Tea. Bloom uncovers himself but, seeing
them, frowns, then smiles, preoccupied. We learned that from them. Lullaby. —Sure we ought to, the old woman said, and I’m ashamed I don’t speak
the language myself. There is plenty of her visible to the naked eye. See, you have
forgotten. A sixpenny at
Rowe’s? Must look up that ad in the national library. Never have written it. Voglio. Horn. Depends on
where. Give us the paw. )_ Ho, boy! Are you going to win? Hoop! Pschatt! Stable with
those halfcastes. Make a
bleeding butcher’s shop of the bugger. Clappyclapclap. —A poor lookout for Corny, Mr Power added. Pretend to want something
awfully, then cry off for her sake. )_ How is that possible?

FIRST WATCH: It is not in the penny catechism. —O, draw him out, Martin, Mr Power said eagerly. Let her
wait. _(The former morganatic spouse of Bloom is hastily removed in the Black
Maria. Damn dangerous thing. And Belfast. F. —Dollard, murmured tankard. He won’t listen to me. About six hundred per cent profit. Find out what they imagine they know. E. , 89, 90, and
91 Dame street: a box containing the remainder of a gross of gilt “J”
pennibs, obtained from same department of same firm: an old sandglass
which rolled containing sand which rolled: a sealed prophecy (never
unsealed) written by Leopold Bloom in 1886 concerning the consequences
of the passing into law of William Ewart Gladstone’s Home Rule bill of
1886 (never passed into law): a bazaar ticket, No 2004, of S. Liquor, what?

—Many a good man’s fault, Mr Dedalus said with a sigh. O’Molloy said gently. _(He jerks the rope. Mind till I see. Baraabum!)_

_(The couples fall aside. James the Less and S. Ringsend. Drago’s shopbell ringing. I too. Dribbling a quiet message from his bladder came to go to do not to do
there to do. A
throstle. )_ O, the very man! _(He whispers. Life, love, voyage round your own little world. Not today
anyhow. Kerwan’s mushroom houses built of
breeze. Our gracious and popular vicereine. Connoisseurs. After this homily which he delivered with much warmth of
asseveration Mr Mulligan in a trice put off from his hat a kerchief
with which he had shielded it. The youth who could not shiver and
shake. It is
the ghost, the king, a king and no king, and the player is Shakespeare
who has studied _Hamlet_ all the years of his life which were not
vanity in order to play the part of the spectre. I think it’s a. This was
scant said but all cried with one acclaim nay, by our Virgin Mother,
the wife should live and the babe to die. —Hurrah, there, says Joe. La ree. _(He eats. Swans from Anna Liffey swim down
here sometimes to preen themselves. Molly and Mrs
Moisel. O, father, will you? Let me be the first to. No-one here: Goulding and I. Can you walk
straight?

Laughing, he. —You what? says Joe, throwing down the letters. Same old dingdong always. But being brought back to life no. True for you, says Mr Vincent cross the
table, and a bullseye into the bargain, says he, and a plumper and a
portlier bull, says he, never shit on shamrock. The deceased gentleman was a
most popular and genial personality in city life and his demise after a
brief illness came as a great shock to citizens of all classes by whom
he is deeply regretted. Ben Dollard’s famous. Music hath charms. _

—Iago, Stephen murmured. Cleanchested. Irish
Lights board. Will happen too. Laughing again, he brought the mirror away from Stephen’s peering eyes. Penny a week for a sod of turf. Locks and keys! Sweep! Four o’clock’s all’s well! Sleep! All is lost
now. —What is it? Mr Bloom asked, taking the card. Suppose it’s the only time we cross
legs, seated. Wish I had a full length
oilpainting of her then. )_ I left the precincts. Wonder how he looks at
life. And so Joe swore high
and holy by this and by that he’d do the devil and all. The young man shoved himself backward through the water and reached the
middle of the creek in two long clean strokes. be L. That, sir, was once a
prosperous cit. Their carriage began to move, creaking and
swaying. At
Plevna that was. One way out of it. Perhaps not to hurt he
meant. DIMINISHED DIGITS PROVE TOO TITILLATING FOR FRISKY FRUMPS. Over against Dame gate Tom Rochford and Nosey Flynn watched the
approach of the cavalcade. A dark back went before them, step of a pard, down, out by the gateway,
under portcullis barbs. Releasing his thumbs, he invokes grace from on high
with large wave gestures and proclaims with bloated pomp:)_

THE CARDINAL:

     Conservio lies captured
     He lies in the lowest dungeon
     With manacles and chains around his limbs
     Weighing upwards of three tons. The blood it is. ZOE: That’s me. If you will be
so kind as to give the letter to Mr Norman. Stout lady
does be with you in the brown costume. (He mutters. Dodge round by Greek street. Keyes. Leave her: get tired. Cell. The sailor grumbled thanks, glanced
sourly at the unheeding windows, sank his head and swung himself
forward four strides. Hee hee hee hee. )_ I suggest that you will do the
handsome thing. —How half and half? says Bloom. Corny Kelleher fell into step at their side. I changed a sovereign I remember. Famished ghosts. His
image, wandering, he met. Then jump in first class with third ticket. Call it: _deus nobis hæc otia fecit. Magnetic needle tells you what’s going on in the sun, the
stars. I paid
five shillings in the pound. —There’s five fathoms out there, he said. CRAB: _(In bushranger’s kit. Wouldn’t
care if I was stretched out stiff. And Bloom letting on to be awfully deeply interested in nothing, a
spider’s web in the corner behind the barrel, and the citizen scowling
after him and the old dog at his feet looking up to know who to bite
and when. Stop. Sleep six months out of twelve. The priest in that Fermanagh will case in the
witnessbox. STEPHEN: Break my spirit, will he? _O merde alors! (He cries, his
vulture talons sharpened. He hadn’t a word to say for himself as
everyone saw. Gently does it. Aftereffect not
pleasant. For aged and virtuous females. What am I saying barrels? Gallons. Gallaher. This
morning the remains of the late Mr Patrick Dignam. Father Conmee doffed his silk hat and smiled, as he took leave, at the
jet beads of her mantilla inkshining in the sun. Umpteen millions. Among gumheavy serpentplants,
milkoozing fruits, where on the tawny waters leaves lie wide. It’s instructive. —Yes, sir, says he. _What is
it? The sweepings of every country including our own. Has to change or
they might think it a house. With which attendant indignities?

The unsympathetic indifference of previously amiable females, the
contempt of muscular males, the acceptance of fragments of bread, the
simulated ignorance of casual acquaintances, the latration of
illegitimate unlicensed vagabond dogs, the infantile discharge of
decomposed vegetable missiles, worth little or nothing, nothing or less
than nothing. —If you want to know what are the events which cast their shadow over
the hell of time of _King Lear, Othello, Hamlet, Troilus and Cressida,_
look to see when and how the shadow lifts. It suits me
splendid. You can do it. One flat. He bore in his hand with
grace a notebook, new, large, clean, bright. —Foot and mouth disease! the editor cried in scornful invective. I love old Bennett. What events might nullify these calculations?

The cessation of existence of both or either, the inauguration of a new
era or calendar, the annihilation of the world and consequent
extermination of the human species, inevitable but impredictable. Not following me?

Didn’t see me perhaps. No use sticking to him like a
leech. _

*    *    *


Corny Kelleher closed his long daybook and glanced with his drooping
eye at a pine coffinlid sentried in a corner. Someone
that has nothing better to do ought to write a letter _pro bono
publico_ to the papers about the muzzling order for a dog the like of
that. She holds
a Scottish widow’s insurance policy and a large marquee umbrella under
which her brood run with her, Patsy hopping on one shod foot, his
collar loose, a hank of porksteaks dangling, Freddy whimpering, Susy
with a crying cod’s mouth, Alice struggling with the baby. No browbeating him. A scared calf’s face gilded with marmalade. I heard that from the head warder that was in
Kilmainham when they hanged Joe Brady, the invincible. Hook it quick. Still, having eunuchs in their choir that was coming it a bit thick. —Seems to be, J. —Tell him go to hell, the editor said promptly. The children of the Male and
Female Foundling Hospital who thronged the windows overlooking the
scene were delighted with this unexpected addition to the day’s
entertainment and a word of praise is due to the Little Sisters of the
Poor for their excellent idea of affording the poor fatherless and
motherless children a genuinely instructive treat. Buck Mulligan flaunted his slip and panama. At his age when dabbling in politics roughly some
score of years previously when he had been a _quasi_ aspirant to
parliamentary honours in the Buckshot Foster days he too recollected in
retrospect (which was a source of keen satisfaction in itself) he had a
sneaking regard for those same ultra ideas. )_ Theirs not to reason why. I turned her music. Her spoon ceased to stir up the sugar. Or a monk. Why the barber in
Drago’s always looked my face when I spoke his face in the glass. A pure stockgetter, due to lay within the hour. —That so? says Joe. What a stupid ad!
Under the obituary notices they stuck it. Been to the seaside. And the fruit on top. Cissy wiped his little mouth with the dribbling bib and wanted him to
sit up properly and say pa pa pa but when she undid the strap she cried
out, holy saint Denis, that he was possing wet and to double the half
blanket the other way under him. Not as much as would blind
your eye. Haines sat down on a
stone, smoking. Born out of bedlock hereditary
epilepsy is present, the consequence of unbridled lust. —The tuner was in today, miss Douce replied, tuning it for the smoking
concert and I never heard such an exquisite player. And in New Place a slack
dishonoured body that once was comely, once as sweet, as fresh as
cinnamon, now her leaves falling, all, bare, frighted of the narrow
grave and unforgiven. Meade’s yard. I am a fool perhaps. Wish I hadn’t promised to meet. My foes beneath me. What, says Mr Leopold with his hands across, that was earnest to
know the drift of it, will they slaughter all? I protest I saw them but
this day morning going to the Liverpool boats, says he. BLOOM: _(In housejacket of ripplecloth, flannel trousers, heelless
slippers, unshaven, his hair rumpled: softly. Then hastened. —Who is that chap behind with Tom Kernan? John Henry Menton asked. Exactly: and that is the ineluctable
modality of the audible. Queer lot of stuff he
must have put through his hands in his time: obituary notices, pubs’
ads, speeches, divorce suits, found drowned. He reads from right to left inaudibly, smiling,
kissing the page. She passed out with her basket and a
marketnet: and Father Conmee saw the conductor help her and net and
basket down: and Father Conmee thought that, as she had nearly passed
the end of the penny fare, she was one of those good souls who had
always to be told twice _bless you, my child,_ that they have been
absolved, _pray for me. And he
said now that he should go in to that castle for to make merry with
them that were there. Signs of rain it is. —No thanks at all, Mr Deasy said. Greasy black rope. And he wanted right go wrong to address the court only
Corny Kelleher got round him telling him to get the handwriting
examined first. Yes. —I understand, Stephen said. A bit off the top. Out of sight, out of mind. Rum idea: eating bits of a
corpse. I
could not see. Thereon embossed in excellent smithwork
was seen the image of a queen of regal port, scion of the house of
Brunswick, Victoria her name, Her Most Excellent Majesty, by grace of
God of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the
British dominions beyond the sea, queen, defender of the faith, Empress
of India, even she, who bore rule, a victress over many peoples, the
wellbeloved, for they knew and loved her from the rising of the sun to
the going down thereof, the pale, the dark, the ruddy and the ethiop. Hello. He turned to Stephen and asked in a fine puzzled voice, lifting his
brows:

—Can you recall, brother, is mother Grogan’s tea and water pot spoken
of in the Mabinogion or is it in the Upanishads?

—I doubt it, said Stephen gravely. Mr Kernan and Ned Lambert followed, Hynes
walking after them. —To whom? Mulligan said, glancing at her. Yours for the asking. If she
found out. Father Conmee thought of the souls of black and brown and yellow men
and of his sermon on saint Peter Claver S. Avowal. Opposite Pigott’s
music warerooms Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c, gaily
apparelled, gravely walked, outpassed by a viceroy and unobserved. The man that got away James Stephens. You not
come? Run, skelter, race. _Epi oinopa
ponton_. )_ This moving kidney. Take one Spanish onion. CHARLES ALBERTA MARSH: Must be virgin. Pflaaaap!

Lynch! Hey? Sign on long o’ me. All trotting down
with porringers and tommycans to be filled. Tap. Martin Cunningham forgot
to give us his spellingbee conundrum this morning. See his phiz then. —I hope not, Martin Cunningham said. ) attributes some of these demises to
abdominal trauma in the case of women workers subjected to heavy
labours in the workshop and to marital discipline in the home but by
far the vast majority to neglect, private or official, culminating in
the exposure of newborn infants, the practice of criminal abortion or
in the atrocious crime of infanticide. Always warm from her. You would imagine that would get played
out pretty quick. Bending archly she reckoned again fat pears and blushing peaches. She slipped a hand into
her kerchief pocket and took out the wadding and waved in reply of
course without letting him and then slipped it back. Shreds. Who brought me into this
world lies there, bronzelidded, under few cheap flowers. ) Shema Israel Adonai Elohenu Adonai Echad. )_ What did you do in the cattlecreep
behind Kilbarrack?

A FEMALE INFANT: _(Shakes a rattle. CORNY KELLEHER: _(Laughs, pointing his thumb over his right shoulder to
the car brought up against the scaffolding. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS. No touch kicking. The hottest stuff ever was. )_ Is me her was you dreamed
before? Was then she him you us since knew? Am all them and the same
now we?

_(Bella approaches, gently tapping with the fan. O’Molloy, about to follow him in, said quietly to Stephen:

—I hope you will live to see it published. His dark lean face had a growth of shaggy
beard round it. Made
me feel so young. )_ My boys will be no end charmed to see you so
ladylike, the colonel, above all, when they come here the night before
the wedding to fondle my new attraction in gilded heels. Martello you call it?

—Billy Pitt had them built, Buck Mulligan said, when the French were on
the sea. The scrotumtightening sea. Before sitting down he
peered through a chink up at the nextdoor windows. Still he knows his own business best. Curiously they are on the right. ZOE: I see, says the blind man. Emperor’s horses. The warm impress of her warm form. Souse
in the ear sometimes. J. Black Liz is our hen. Gelid light and air were in the
kitchen but out of doors gentle summer morning everywhere. In the corridor his name was heard, called from the playfield. And sure, more be token, the lout I’m told was in
Power’s after, the blender’s, round in Cope street going home footless
in a cab five times in the week after drinking his way through all the
samples in the bloody establishment. What did I say? I forget. And shaking Bloom’s hand doing the tragic
to tell her that. —Are you going? John Eglinton’s active eyebrows asked. Power. Smith O’Brien. Mr Bloom
with open mouth, his left boot sanded sideways, leaned, breathed. But Bloom?

Miss Douce grunted in snuffy fogey’s tone:

—For your what? says he. Unmack I have it. The firing squad. Gloomy gardens then went by: one by one: gloomy houses. —And, Martin Cunningham said, we wouldn’t have scenes like that when
the hearse capsized round Dunphy’s and upset the coffin on to the road. He rooted in the sand,
dabbling, delving and stopped to listen to the air, scraped up the sand
again with a fury of his claws, soon ceasing, a pard, a panther, got in
spousebreach, vulturing the dead. Healthy too, chanting,
regular hours, then brew liqueurs. But where is he? We can’t wait. Round the Kish in eighty days. Reserved about to yield. —Don’t carry it like that, Mr Deasy said. Night we were in the box. Material domination. Are you not
happy in your home? Flower to console me and a pin cuts lo. A cardinal’s son. Kinch, get the jug. Then knocked the blades lightly on the turf: clean. It called again. Timothy
canon Gorman, P. Greyish over
the ears. What composite asymmetrical image in the mirror then attracted his
attention?

The image of a solitary (ipsorelative) mutable (aliorelative) man. Which seemed to the host to be the predominant qualities of his guest?

Confidence in himself, an equal and opposite power of abandonment and
recuperation. )_ It was Gerald converted me
to be a true corsetlover when I was female impersonator in the High
School play _Vice Versa_. Still, she
might do worse. Let me off this once. Who’s he when he’s at home?

—Metempsychosis, he said, frowning. J. The
impervious navigator heard these lurid tidings, undismayed. I didn’t recognise him for the moment. —Go on, blast you! Ben Dollard growled. Come along, Bloom. Nobody. Last rose Castile of summer left bloom I feel so sad alone. And in point of fact the young man named Antonio’s livid face did
actually look like forced smiling and the curious effect excited the
unreserved admiration of everybody including Skin-the-Goat, who this
time stretched over. Well, so
it is. The last house. —Are you a medical student, sir? the old woman asked. And with a great future behind him. You saved men from drowning. Licking pennies. _Mr MacTrigger_. Hence
this. What lines concluded his first piece of original verse written by him,
potential poet, at the age of 11 in 1877 on the occasion of the
offering of three prizes of 10/-, 5/- and 2/6 respectively for
competition by the _Shamrock_, a weekly newspaper?

     An ambition to squint
     At my verses in print
     Makes me hope that for these you’ll find room. Three Purty Maids from School. His
hindpaws then scattered the sand: then his forepaws dabbled and delved. She looked back at him, mewing. Yes, there’s the
light in the priest’s house. Back of everything magnetism. Slaughter of innocents. And one day she with. Pat to and fro. He turned from the morning noises of the quayside and walked through
Lime street. in the course of his perambulations round the docks in
the congenial atmosphere of the _Old Ireland_ tavern, come back to Erin
and so on. Keen glance you gave her. He was looking up so intently, so still,
and he saw her kick the ball and perhaps he could see the bright steel
buckles of her shoes if she swung them like that thoughtfully with the
toes down. )_ Hoax! Beware of the flapper and
bogus mournful. They pawed their blouses, both of black
satin, two and nine a yard, waiting for their teas to draw, and two and
seven. Has the wrong sow by the lug. In the interest of coming
generations I suggest that the parts affected should be preserved in
spirits of wine in the national teratological museum. It
slapped open and he took from it two notes, one of joined halves, and
laid them carefully on the table. Davy, family grocers, 1 Charlemont Mall, Grand
Canal, for circulation on the waters of civic finance, for possible,
circuitous or direct, return. —Yes, Mr Bloom answered. O’Molloy said, Bushe K. —Here, says Joe, doing the honours. Cannibals would with lemon and rice. She turns and, holding out
her hands, draws him over. Strictly confidential. )_

BLOOM: O. —Good morning, sir, Stephen said again, bowing to his bent back. , an end-to-end churn, a turnip
pulper etc. We are the fat. Richie rift in the lute alone sat: Goulding, Collis, Ward. To knock or not to knock. Must be near nine. The constant readers’ room. Then
comes good uncle Leo. Run you through
the small guts for nothing. —No, thanks, professor MacHugh said, waving the cigarettecase aside. _

—I will try, Stephen said, and let you know tomorrow. He peered from under his shaggy brows at the manuscript by his elbow
and, muttering, began to prod the stiff buttons of the keyboard slowly,
sometimes blowing as he screwed up the drum to erase an error. )_ O, you ruck! You ought to see yourself!

BLOOM: For old sake’ sake. (Ironical opposition cheers. But ours is the _omphalos_. I hate
stupid crowds. E. M’Coy. —I’ll take this one, he said. Big Benaben. Seasonable weather we are
having this time of year. Mr Best came forward, amiable, towards his colleague. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem. He heard them as a boy
in Ringabella, Crosshaven, Ringabella, singing their barcaroles. )_ All things end. ZOE: _(Runs to stephen and links him. _(She cries. Tap. Do you know that some mornings he has to get his hat
on with a shoehorn. P. The jarvies raised their
hats. The man that was drowned. I’ve a thirst on me
I wouldn’t sell for half a crown. Cider that was. During the past four minutes or thereabouts
he had been staring hard at a certain amount of number one Bass bottled
by Messrs Bass and Co at Burton-on-Trent which happened to be situated
amongst a lot of others right opposite to where he was and which was
certainly calculated to attract anyone’s remark on account of its
scarlet appearance. Still the other brother lord Ardilaun has to change
his shirt four times a day, they say. Oddly
enough he too draws for us an unhappy relation with the dark lady of
the sonnets. He went into the inner office, closing the door behind him. Hello, Jack. )_ Instinct
rules the world. Then casual wards full after. Given at this our loyal city of Dublin in the year 1 of the
Paradisiacal Era. Miss Douce, engaging, Lydia Douce, bowed to suave solicitor, George
Lidwell, gentleman, entering. And everybody knows that
it’s the very opposite of that that is really life. And other lady friends from
neighbour seats as Lawn Tennyson, gentleman poet, sings. Where it took place. —Knee, Lenehan said. He
walks, runs, zigzags, gallops, lugs laid back. ?

—U. Or because so
like the Spanish. He gazed gravely at
the ground till the coffincart wheeled off to the left. Coming out with a whopper now. She bent. , rear admiral, the right honourable sir
Hercules Hannibal Habeas Corpus Anderson, K. Not half as witty as calling him base barreltone. See? D. Black for the married. Stephen picked it up and put it on. I told you not go with
drunken goy ever. The stonecutter’s yard on the right. Narcotic. _

THE MOTHER: _(Comes nearer, breathing upon him softly her breath of
wetted ashes. —What is it? says John Wyse. —Was she? Bloom ejaculated, surprised though not astonished by any
means, I never heard that rumour before. Chords dark. You could hear them in Paris and
New York. He is in my father. _

They are still. _ Appropriate. Sure you won’t, ma’amsir. _(He
laughs, shaking his head. Ruttledge’s door: ee creaking. _(She turns up Bloom’s hand. And later on at a propitious opportunity he
purposed (Bloom did), without anyway prying into his private affairs on
the _fools step in where angels_ principle, advising him to sever his
connection with a certain budding practitioner who, he noticed, was
prone to disparage and even to a slight extent with some hilarious
pretext when not present, deprecate him, or whatever you like to call
it which in Bloom’s humble opinion threw a nasty sidelight on that side
of a person’s character, no pun intended. He passed Saint
Joseph’s National school. All cordially invited. )_ Order in
court! The accused will now make a bogus statement. Why did she me? Fate. The voices blend and fuse in clouded silence: silence that is the
infinite of space: and swiftly, silently the soul is wafted over
regions of cycles of generations that have lived. Wonder if he pays rent to the corporation. A wide yellow cummerbund
girdles her. Well: if the
father who has not a son be not a father can the son who has not a
father be a son? When Rutlandbaconsouthamptonshakespeare or another
poet of the same name in the comedy of errors wrote _Hamlet_ he was not
the father of his own son merely but, being no more a son, he was and
felt himself the father of all his race, the father of his own
grandfather, the father of his unborn grandson who, by the same token,
never was born, for nature, as Mr Magee understands her, abhors
perfection. Arsing around from one
pub to another, leaving it to your own honour, with old Giltrap’s dog
and getting fed up by the ratepayers and corporators. But what does Shakespeare
say? _Put but money in thy purse. Remember your epiphanies written on green oval
leaves, deeply deep, copies to be sent if you died to all the great
libraries of the world, including Alexandria? Someone was to read them
there after a few thousand years, a mahamanvantara. Good voice he has still. All breadcrumbs they
are. The fauna. The language of course was another thing. Written by Mr Philip
Beaufoy, Playgoers’ Club, London. It would be better to bury them in red: a dark red. Little dog, die. Don’t miss
this chance. You see, he, Dignam, I
mean, didn’t serve any notice of the assignment on the company at the
time and nominally under the act the mortgagee can’t recover on the
policy. _

The citizen made a grab at the letter. —Huuuh! the drover’s voice cried, his switch sounding on their flanks. I am the fire upon
the altar. What is he foostering over that change for?
Sees me looking. I only meant a square party, a mixed
marriage mingling of our different little conjugials. Dislike
rough and tumble. Then the next
thing on the menu. Hygiene that was what they call now. Torn strip of
envelope. Any brollies or gumboots in the fambly? Where the Henry Nevil’s
sawbones and ole clo? Sorra one o’ me knows. Henry. He’s up in Dottyville with Connolly Norman. Not yet. They cook in soda. Take no notice. —I have put the matter into a nutshell, Mr Deasy said. BLOOM: _(Coldly. Poisonous berries. —That’ll be all right, he said. And sir Leopold that was the goodliest guest that ever sat
in scholars’ hall and that was the meekest man and the kindest that
ever laid husbandly hand under hen and that was the very truest knight
of the world one that ever did minion service to lady gentle pledged
him courtly in the cup. Fill
us out some more tea, Kinch. Moorish eyes. )_ What?

STEPHEN: _(Murmurs. —I believe so, Mr Kernan answered. Say
they won’t eat pork. Have we cold
feet about the cosmos? No. The brother-in-law, turning away, placed something in his free hand. —My name is absurd too: Malachi Mulligan, two dactyls. _to Flora’s lips did hie. —I pinched it out of the skivvy’s room, Buck Mulligan said. Do you want to cross? There’s nothing in the way. He changed his name to De Wet, the
Boer general. Woodwinds mooing cows. 1. I’ll just wait and take him along in a few. Bloom unwound slowly the
elastic band of his packet. _(The virgins Nurse Callan and Nurse Quigley burst through the
ringkeepers and the ropes and mob him with open arms. Alluding to the encounter he
said, laughingly, Stephen, that is:

—He is down on his luck. ANNE
WIMBLES, FLO WANGLES—YET CAN YOU BLAME THEM?


—Onehandled adulterer, he said smiling grimly. )_

THE DOORHANDLE: Theeee!

ZOE: The devil is in that door. )_ Henry!
Leopold! Lionel, thou lost one! Clear my name. Annoyed if you don’t. The two maries. _Chacun son goût_. —A deathsman of the soul Robert Greene called him, Stephen said. Pure fluke of mine: the bias. Mr Bloom
coasted warily. Because mostly they
appeared to imagine he came from Carrick-on-Shannon or somewhereabouts
in the county Sligo. Knife in his
back. Yashmak. Then he put a
forkful into his mouth, chewing with discernment the toothsome pliant
meat. The Leith police dismisseth us. His eyelids sank quietly often as
he walked in happy warmth. Twentyeight it is. Handker. Tap. —For the old woman of Prince’s street, says the citizen, the subsidised
organ. Yes now, look at it that
way. Martin, 77, 78, 79 and 80 North Wall, assisted by the men and
officers of the Duke of Cornwall’s light infantry under the general
supervision of H. The collapse which Bloom ascribed to gastric
inanition and certain chemical compounds of varying degrees of
adulteration and alcoholic strength, accelerated by mental exertion and
the velocity of rapid circular motion in a relaxing atmosphere, Stephen
attributed to the reapparition of a matutinal cloud (perceived by both
from two different points of observation Sandycove and Dublin) at first
no bigger than a woman’s hand. What she? The virgin at
Hodges Figgis’ window on Monday looking in for one of the alphabet
books you were going to write. Jesus wept: and no wonder, by Christ!

I pull the wheezy bell of their shuttered cottage: and wait. Perfumed bodies, warm, full. He halted before Dlugacz’s window, staring at the hanks of sausages,
polonies, black and white. I’m sure that Stephen is a
very good little boy!

ZOE: _(Examining Stephen’s palm. Of Bloom. _Sraid
Mabbot. Yes, she was back. Steered by an umbrella sword to the footlights: Mario the tenor. Feel my feet quite
clean. THE CAP: Which?

_(Outside the gramophone begins to blare_ The Holy City. I don’t give a shit for him. —I am a servant of two masters, Stephen said, an English and an
Italian. )_ You have broken the spell. After he’ll
see. He turned suddenly from a chip of strawberries, drew a gold watch from
his fob and held it at its chain’s length. Lay it on with a trowel. Me. )_

THE RETRIEVER: _(Barking. —Sad to lose the old friends, Mrs Breen’s womaneyes said melancholily. I
anticipated some such reception, he began with an eldritch laugh, for
which, it seems, history is to blame. The chap that writes like
Synge. The
hypothesis of a plasmic memory, advanced by the Caledonian envoy and
worthy of the metaphysical traditions of the land he stood for,
envisaged in such cases an arrest of embryonic development at some
stage antecedent to the human. FIRST WATCH: The King versus Bloom. So over she went and when he saw her coming she could see him take his
hand out of his pocket, getting nervous, and beginning to play with his
watchchain, looking up at the church. What considerations rendered departure not irrational?

The parties concerned, uniting, had increased and multiplied, which
being done, offspring produced and educed to maturity, the parties, if
not disunited were obliged to reunite for increase and multiplication,
which was absurd, to form by reunion the original couple of uniting
parties, which was impossible. Always gives a woman clumsy feet. There would be a fall and the greatest
fall in history. )_ I never loved a dear gazelle but it was sure
to. Got the shove, all of
them. —Immense, Martin Cunningham said pompously. Fifteen children he had. To yoke me as his yokefellow, our crimes our common cause. Were there obverse meditations of involution increasingly less vast?

Of the eons of geological periods recorded in the stratifications of
the earth: of the myriad minute entomological organic existences
concealed in cavities of the earth, beneath removable stones, in hives
and mounds, of microbes, germs, bacteria, bacilli, spermatozoa: of the
incalculable trillions of billions of millions of imperceptible
molecules contained by cohesion of molecular affinity in a single
pinhead: of the universe of human serum constellated with red and white
bodies, themselves universes of void space constellated with other
bodies, each, in continuity, its universe of divisible component bodies
of which each was again divisible in divisions of redivisible component
bodies, dividends and divisors ever diminishing without actual division
till, if the progress were carried far enough, nought nowhere was never
reached. After. Be mine. )_ Madam, when we last had this pleasure by
letter dated the sixteenth instant. —In the second carriage, miss Douce’s wet lips said, laughing in the
sun. Leopold Bloom (aged 6) had accompanied these narrations by constant
consultation of a geographical map of Europe (political) and by
suggestions for the establishment of affiliated business premises in
the various centres mentioned. Lidwell. By carcass of William
Wilkinson, auditor and accountant, lately deceased, three pounds
thirteen and six. —The divine afflatus, Mr O’Madden Burke said. I
make no doubt it smacks of wenching. HYNES: _(Coldly. Your funeral’s tomorrow
     While you’re coming through the rye. Poor papa! Poor man! I’m glad I didn’t go into the room to look at his
face. Unspeakable messages he telephoned mentally to Miss Dunn
at an address in D’Olier street while he presented himself indecently
to the instrument in the callbox. ZOE: _(Flattered. See, not be seen. _The Useful Ready Reckoner_ (brown cloth). I call that patriotism. lig. O lust our refuge and our
strength. They floated, fell: they faded. Poor Mrs Purefoy. A telegram boy stepped in nimbly, threw an envelope on the counter and
stepped off posthaste with a word:

_—Freeman!_

Mr Bloom said slowly:

—Well, he is one of our saviours also. Bloom, stifflegged, aging, bends over her hoof and with gentle fingers
draws out and in her laces. Times of the troubles. That’s the moon. But I wish Mrs Fleming had darned these socks better. —History shows that to be true, _inquit Eglintonus Chronolologos_. Save China’s millions. A jolt. The baby policeman, Constable
MacFadden, summoned by special courier from Booterstown, quickly
restored order and with lightning promptitude proposed the seventeenth
of the month as a solution equally honourable for both contending
parties. He means that
the love so given to one near in blood is covetously withheld from some
stranger who, it may be, hungers for it. Bloom listened. , F. —Not taking anything between drinks, says I. She was. By gad, sir, a queen of them. Mr Bloom, availing himself of the right of free speech,
he having just a bowing acquaintance with the language in dispute,
though, to be sure, rather in a quandary over _voglio_, remarked to his
_protégé_ in an audible tone of voice _à propos_ of the battle royal in
the street which was still raging fast and furious:

—A beautiful language. I owe
three shillings to O’Grady. C. Just a bite or two. Near the timberyard
a squatted child at marbles, alone, shooting the taw with a cunnythumb. _Their lives_. When? Now?

Well. —Swindling the peasants, says the citizen, and the poor of Ireland. Who did you
learn that from? Nobody. “Come back, come back, you pretty little boy,
     And play your ball again. He wore a loose white silk neckcloth and altogether he
looked (though he was not) a dying man. And he conjured them by Him who died on rood that they should
well and truly try and true deliverance make in the issue joined
between their sovereign lord the king and the prisoner at the bar and
true verdict give according to the evidence so help them God and kiss
the book. )_

THE BAWD: Ten shillings a maidenhead. Cute old codger. Bless us, O Lord, and these thy
gifts. ERIN, GREEN GEM OF THE SILVER SEA


—The ghost walks, professor MacHugh murmured softly, biscuitfully to
the dusty windowpane. )_
U. He turned northeast and crossed the firmer
sand towards the Pigeonhouse. Drowning his grief. Wonder where he lives. Names change:
that’s all. —I have conceived a play for the mummers, he said solemnly. What will I tell him, Mr
Crawford?

K. Funny she
looked soaped all over. All wind and piss like
a tanyard cat. O sweety all your little girlwhite up I saw dirty bracegirdle made me
do love sticky we two naughty Grace darling she him half past the bed
met him pike hoses frillies for Raoul de perfume your wife black hair
heave under embon _señorita_ young eyes Mulvey plump bubs me breadvan
Winkle red slippers she rusty sleep wander years of dreams return tail
end Agendath swoony lovey showed me her next year in drawers return
next in her next her next. )_ One night they bring you home drunk as dog after
spend your good money. —The act of a hero, he said. Police tout. Might be still up. Waterlilies. God speed scut. STEPHEN: Stick, no. _(He whispers in the ear of a blushing waitress and
laughs kindly. —Thank you, sir, Stephen said, gathering the money together with shy
haste and putting it all in a pocket of his trousers. Never see them sit on a bench marked _Wet Paint_. —I see, he said. Leaning on it he looked
down on the water and on the mailboat clearing the harbourmouth of
Kingstown. He
read the scarlet letters on their five tall white hats: H. He
asked me to. )_ You can apply your eye to the
keyhole and play with yourself while I just go through her a few times. He does canvassing for
the _Freeman. He cried above the clatter of the wheels:

—I won’t have her bastard of a nephew ruin my son. Stuck. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. But, hising up her petticoats. Outside them and through them ran raddled sheep bleating their
fear. —At what o’clock did you dine? he questioned of the slim form and tired
though unwrinkled face. Laying it out. Not bad for a Fairview
moon. Married. As those were particularly hot
times in the general hullaballoo Bloom sustained a minor injury from a
nasty prod of some chap’s elbow in the crowd that of course congregated
lodging some place about the pit of the stomach, fortunately not of a
grave character. Fear injects
juices make it tender enough for them. She said thereto that she
had seen many births of women but never was none so hard as was that
woman’s birth. Pinned up, I bet. Just
for a few

     Cuckoo
     Cuckoo
     Cuckoo. He passed the _Irish Times_. ): Have similar orders been issued
for the slaughter of human animals who dare to play Irish games in the
Phoenix park?

Mr Allfours: The answer is in the negative. And then, number one, you came up against the man in
possession and had to produce your credentials like the claimant in the
Tichborne case, Roger Charles Tichborne, _Bella_ was the boat’s name to
the best of his recollection he, the heir, went down in as the evidence
went to show and there was a tattoo mark too in Indian ink, lord Bellew
was it, as he might very easily have picked up the details from some
pal on board ship and then, when got up to tally with the description
given, introduce himself with: _Excuse me, my name is So and So_ or
some such commonplace remark. Pray for him, prayed the bass of Dollard. _(He holds in his breath. Writing for the newspapers which is the readiest channel
nowadays. He rests, disarmed of
fatherhood, having devised that mystical estate upon his son. Cannon) 2. Am I walking into eternity along Sandymount strand? Crush,
crack, crick, crick. One moment. Pom. Two
strings to her bow. Bronze by gold, Miss Kennedy’s head by Miss Douce’s head, appeared
above the crossblind of the Ormond hotel. Listen: a
fourworded wavespeech: seesoo, hrss, rsseeiss, ooos. )_

     The galling chain. Saltwhite crumbling mush of
corpse: smell, taste like raw white turnips. All join heartily in the singing. Too full for words. )_

J. _(She draws a
poniard and, clad in the sheathmail of an elected knight of nine,
strikes at his loins. Wisdom Hely’s. Nine glorias for
shooting a bishop. Now. Molly had that elephantgrey dress with the braided frogs. My patience are exhaust. Anyhow I got the best of
that. Dreamt last night? Wait. you will be in heaven and Ireland will be
free. Won’t that be
nice? _(He places a ruby ring on her finger. Blushing, his mask
said:

—Mr Dedalus, your views are most illuminating. It is. Misconduct of society belle. Clean. Reduce Bloom by cross multiplication of reverses of fortune, from which
these supports protected him, and by elimination of all positive values
to a negligible negative irrational unreal quantity. It can’t be tourists’ matches. Penance. The navvy, staggering forward,
cleaves the crowd and lurches towards the tramsiding. Josie
Powell that was. Grease. How they were fated to meet and an attachment
sprang up between the two so that their names were coupled in the
public eye was told in court with letters containing the habitual mushy
and compromising expressions leaving no loophole to show that they
openly cohabited two or three times a week at some wellknown seaside
hotel and relations, when the thing ran its normal course, became in
due course intimate. He did not look in the bucket. Noisy
selfwilled man. —What year would that be about? Mr B interrogated. Dearest Papli. A long and seafed
silent rut. , agreeably
surprised, made haste to reply. Clock clacked. Then getting it ready. The midnight sun is darkened. By the way go easy with that money like a good young imbecile. His hand fell to his side again. Always liked to let her self out. —Got the horn or what? he said. Section 2. Lenehan laughed. O saints above,
I’m drenched! O, the women in the front row! O, I never laughed so
many! Well, of course that’s what gives him the base barreltone. Once
in 1892 and once in 1893 with Julius (Juda) Mastiansky, on both
occasions in the parlour of his (Bloom’s) house in Lombard street,
west. Curran, ten guineas. Lastly at the head of the
board was the young poet who found a refuge from his labours of
pedagogy and metaphysical inquisition in the convivial atmosphere of
Socratic discussion, while to right and left of him were accommodated
the flippant prognosticator, fresh from the hippodrome, and that
vigilant wanderer, soiled by the dust of travel and combat and stained
by the mire of an indelible dishonour, but from whose steadfast and
constant heart no lure or peril or threat or degradation could ever
efface the image of that voluptuous loveliness which the inspired
pencil of Lafayette has limned for ages yet to come. Read with their fingers. He ought
to have either died naturally or on the scaffold high. What statement was made, under correction, by Bloom concerning a fourth
seeker of pure truth, by name Aristotle, mentioned, with permission, by
Stephen?

That the seeker mentioned had been a pupil of a rabbinical philosopher,
name uncertain. du
Boyes, agent for typewriters or something like that. Silver means
born rich. But a step in the required direction it was beyond yea or nay and
both monetarily and mentally it contained no reflection on his dignity
in the smallest and it often turned in uncommonly handy to be handed a
cheque at a muchneeded moment when every little helped. Words Mulligan had spoken
a moment since in mockery to the stranger. The drain, you mean. Other stocking. What perfume does your?
_Peau d’Espagne_. Told her what Spinoza says in that book of poor papa’s. He’s an Irishman. PRIVATE CARR: _(Staggering as he is pulled away. They
offer to come over here. Mother’s deathbed. Walsh D. They have the
dimensions of your other features, that’s all. Well. _(She hiccups, then bends quickly her sailor hat under which
her hair glows, red with henna. Look, there’s all I have. We two, she said, will seek the kips where shady Mary is. _A roar of welcome greets
him. But tomorrow is a new day will be. By Dlugacz’ porkshop bright tubes of Agendath trotted a
gallantbuttocked mare. —Quite right, Martin Cunningham said, taking the list. But, he further added, it is mayhap
to relieve the pentup feelings that in common oppress them for I have
more than once observed that birds of a feather laugh together. Perhaps it should be added
that the effect is greatly increased if Owen’s verse be spoken somewhat
slowly and indistinctly in a tone suggestive of suppressed rancour. THE NAVVY: _(Shouts. SOPHIST WALLOPS HAUGHTY HELEN SQUARE ON PROBOSCIS. Why minor sad? Sign H. J. _(He looks up. )_ Let
him be taken, Mr Subsheriff, from the dock where he now stands and
detained in custody in Mountjoy prison during His Majesty’s pleasure
and there be hanged by the neck until he is dead and therein fail not
at your peril or may the Lord have mercy on your soul. B. He’s behind with Ned Lambert and Hynes. Manna. Lips laughing. Arm in arm. O. Breaking down, he began to weep to himself quietly, stumbling a little
in his walk. Gibraltar. Van. Added
to which of course would be the pecuniary emolument by no means to be
sneezed at, going hand in hand with his tuition fees. A sail veering about the blank bay waiting
for a swollen bundle to bob up, roll over to the sun a puffy face,
saltwhite. Wanted a dog to pass
the time. Take her for me. —Spooning with him last night on the pier. Language of flowers. Shark liver oil they use to clean. After you with our incorporated drinkingcup. Get another of Paul de Kock’s. )_
We are engaged you see, sergeant. _Omnis caro ad te veniet_. He curled them
between his palms at whiles and swallowed them softly. She must have been
thinking of someone else all the time. Smell of burn. _

J. He went. Jesusmario with rougy cheeks, doublet and spindle legs. A. Not likely. Elfin riders sat them, watchful of a sign. Dunphy’s corner. What were his reflections concerning the last member of this series and
late occupant of the bed?

Reflections on his vigour (a bounder), corporal proportion (a
billsticker), commercial ability (a bester), impressionability (a
boaster). Why did he take them rather than others?
Richard, a whoreson crookback, misbegotten, makes love to a widowed Ann
(what’s in a name?), woos and wins her, a whoreson merry widow. What harm? Must since she came
to the use of reason, he, he and he. So to change the subject he read about Dignam R. Of what did bellchime and handtouch and footstep and lonechill remind
him?

Of companions now in various manners in different places defunct: Percy
Apjohn (killed in action, Modder River), Philip Gilligan (phthisis,
Jervis Street hospital), Matthew F. Walking by Doran’s publichouse he slid his hand between his waistcoat
and trousers and, pulling aside his shirt gently, felt a slack fold of
his belly. )_

BLACK LIZ: Gara. Unsolicited testimonials for Professor Waldmann’s wonderful chest
exuber. )_ Hand
hurts me slightly. Where Pat Kinsella had his Harp theatre before Whitbred ran the
Queen’s. Still better tell him. Sitting on his throne sucking red
jujubes white. Soft soft soft hand. They caught
up on the others and walked abreast. Then Paddy Hooper worked Tay Pay who took him on to the _Star. coalminers, divers, scavengers etc. C. _Scusi, eh? Tante belle cose!_

Almidano Artifoni, holding up a baton of rolled music as a signal,
trotted on stout trousers after the Dalkey tram. The Glencree dinner. A call again. _Sonnez la cloche!_ O do! There’s no-one. What? Worst is beginning. BIDDY THE CLAP: Methinks yon sable knight will joust it with the best. BLOOM: On this day twenty years ago we overcame the hereditary enemy at
Ladysmith. Her crocus dress she wore lowcut, belongings on show. On his annual bend,
M’Coy said. Hide her blushes. She always kept things decent in
     The Hannigan famileye. ) that both natality and
mortality, as well as all other phenomena of evolution, tidal
movements, lunar phases, blood temperatures, diseases in general,
everything, in fine, in nature’s vast workshop from the extinction of
some remote sun to the blossoming of one of the countless flowers which
beautify our public parks is subject to a law of numeration as yet
unascertained. We heard the piano. Cosy curtains. Ant milks aphis. A tall blackbearded figure, bent on a stick, stumping round the corner
of Elvery’s Elephant house, showed them a curved hand open on his
spine. —It’s not the wife anyhow, Nosey Flynn said. —O, that must be the tuner, Lydia said to Simonlionel first I saw,
forgot it when he was here. Vinegar hill. )_ Liar!

_(The beagle lifts his snout, showing the grey scorbutic face of Paddy
Dignam. Right. , in
the church of the Three Patrons, Rathgar. BELLO: _(Savagely. B. An emerald set in the ring of the sea. From the playfield the boys raised a shout. Crosslegged under an umbrel umbershoot he thrones an
Aztec logos, functioning on astral levels, their oversoul, mahamahatma. Too ugly. —Good morning, sir. Old Mrs Riordan with the
rumbling stomach’s Skye terrier in the City Arms hotel. By the bye
have you the book, the thing, the ashplant? Yes, there it, yes. That’s a matter for everyman’s opinion and, without dragging in the
sectarian side of the business, I beg to differ with you _in toto_
there. Flat I see, then think distance, near, far,
flat I see, east, back. Seek thou the
light. Old fellow asleep near that confessionbox. Milly. A wealthy American
makes a street collection for Bloom. No drinks served before mass. Joy: I ate it: joy. A sail! A veil awave upon the waves. Sands and
stones. In going by he
had blessed us. Lord Talbot de Malahide,
immediate hereditary lord admiral of Malahide and the seas adjoining. SECOND WATCH: An alibi. With a slow nod Bloom
conveys his gratitude as that is exactly what Stephen needs. —Half and half I mean, says the citizen. Look here. Thanking you for
the hospitality of your columns. I’m barricaded up, Simon, with
two men prowling around the house trying to effect an entrance. And she did bedad. )_ Give me back that potato, will you?

ZOE: Forfeits, a fine thing and a superfine thing. Her (the lady’s) eyes, dark, large, looked at Stephen, about
to smile about something to be admired, Lafayette of Westmoreland
street, Dublin’s premier photographic artist, being responsible for the
esthetic execution. Cremation better. I like that. Chickens come home to roost. Table: able. O word of fear!

Dark dome received, reverbed. Work it out with
the buttend of a pencil, like a good young idiot. I hold this house. Only now his father kept him in in
the evenings studying hard to get an exhibition in the intermediate
that was on and he was going to go to Trinity college to study for a
doctor when he left the high school like his brother W. A badge maybe. Wispish hair over her ears. Luring. He knew them. SECOND WATCH: I don’t want your instructions in the discharge of my
duty. Stick it in a chap’s eye in the tram. You’ll get curvature of the spine. THE MOTHER: Who saved you the night you jumped into the train at Dalkey
with Paddy Lee? Who had pity for you when you were sad among the
strangers? Prayer is allpowerful. For a woman who was no
better than she should be, Helen, the runaway wife of Menelaus, ten
years the Greeks made war on Troy. Because he saw me on the polo
ground of the Phoenix park at the match All Ireland versus the Rest of
Ireland. _(He minuets forward three paces on tripping bee’s feet. _Stephen throws his ashplant on the table
and seizes Zoe round the waist. _Poor little Paddy Dignam_, he said. Because of course uptodate tourist travelling was as yet merely
in its infancy, so to speak, and the accommodation left much to be
desired. Signatures of all things I am here to read, seaspawn
and seawrack, the nearing tide, that rusty boot. )_

BOB DORAN: Towser. From maturity to senility he would increasingly resemble his paternal
procreator. L. So I without deviating from plain
facts in the least told him his God, I mean Christ, was a jew too and
all his family like me though in reality I’m not. To Martha I must write. W. ) blames
the sanitary conditions in which our greylunged citizens contract
adenoids, pulmonary complaints etc. A querulous newborn female infant crying to cause and
lessen congestion. She kissed me. J. Soap feeling rather sticky behind. Then Mount
Jerome for the protestants. —I am, ma’am, Buck Mulligan answered. Setting up house for her time after time and then
pawning the furniture on him every Saturday almost. All his brains are in the nape of his neck,
Simon Dedalus says. I must acquaint you, said Mr Crotthers, clapping on the table
so as to evoke a resonant comment of emphasis, old Glory Allelujurum
was round again today, an elderly man with dundrearies, preferring
through his nose a request to have word of Wilhelmina, my life, as he
calls her. ,
Dundrum, south, or Sutton, north, both localities equally reported by
trial to resemble the terrestrial poles in being favourable climates
for phthisical subjects), the premises to be held under feefarm grant,
lease 999 years, the messuage to consist of 1 drawingroom with
baywindow (2 lancets), thermometer affixed, 1 sittingroom, 4 bedrooms,
2 servants’ rooms, tiled kitchen with close range and scullery, lounge
hall fitted with linen wallpresses, fumed oak sectional bookcase
containing the Encyclopaedia Britannica and New Century Dictionary,
transverse obsolete medieval and oriental weapons, dinner gong,
alabaster lamp, bowl pendant, vulcanite automatic telephone receiver
with adjacent directory, handtufted Axminster carpet with cream ground
and trellis border, loo table with pillar and claw legs, hearth with
massive firebrasses and ormolu mantel chronometer clock, guaranteed
timekeeper with cathedral chime, barometer with hygrographic chart,
comfortable lounge settees and corner fitments, upholstered in ruby
plush with good springing and sunk centre, three banner Japanese screen
and cuspidors (club style, rich winecoloured leather, gloss renewable
with a minimum of labour by use of linseed oil and vinegar) and
pyramidically prismatic central chandelier lustre, bentwood perch with
fingertame parrot (expurgated language), embossed mural paper at 10/-
per dozen with transverse swags of carmine floral design and top crown
frieze, staircase, three continuous flights at successive right angles,
of varnished cleargrained oak, treads and risers, newel, balusters and
handrail, with steppedup panel dado, dressed with camphorated wax:
bathroom, hot and cold supply, reclining and shower: water closet on
mezzanine provided with opaque singlepane oblong window, tipup seat,
bracket lamp, brass tierod and brace, armrests, footstool and artistic
oleograph on inner face of door: ditto, plain: servants’ apartments
with separate sanitary and hygienic necessaries for cook, general and
betweenmaid (salary, rising by biennial unearned increments of £ 2,
with comprehensive fidelity insurance, annual bonus (£ 1) and retiring
allowance (based on the 65 system) after 30 years’ service), pantry,
buttery, larder, refrigerator, outoffices, coal and wood cellarage with
winebin (still and sparkling vintages) for distinguished guests, if
entertained to dinner (evening dress), carbon monoxide gas supply
throughout. I declare it carried. A false priest’s servant bade him welcome. Would you mind,
please, telling me the right time? I’ll tell you the right time up a
dark lane. A more prudent course, as Bloom said to
the not over effusive, in fact like the distinguished personage under
discussion beside him, would have been to sound the lie of the land
first. Where? To evening lands. By Cantwell’s offices roved Greaseabloom, by Ceppi’s virgins, bright of
their oils. Gradually changes your
character. Phosphorus it must be done with. Water rushed roaring through the sluices. Strange he never saw his real country. —I suppose you got five, Dilly said. Then keep them waiting months for their fee. Is it? Almost certain. Tom Rochford, winner, in athlete’s singlet and
breeches, arrives at the head of the national hurdle handicap and leaps
into the void. —Have I heard all? Stephen asked. Against my grain somehow. —Someone saluted you, Mr Bloom said. J. They lifted. ’Tis time for her poor soul
     To get out of heaven. To the inexpressible grief
of his. Deportment. Between the Saxon smile and yankee yawp. But even suppose it
did come to planking down the needful and breaking Boyd’s heart it was
not so dear, purse permitting, a few guineas at the outside considering
the fare to Mullingar where he figured on going was five and six, there
and back. He was
eying her as a snake eyes its prey. )_ When the angel’s book comes to be opened
if aught that the pensive bosom has inaugurated of soultransfigured and
of soultransfiguring deserves to live I say accord the prisoner at the
bar the sacred benefit of the doubt. 9. )_ I can make a true black knot. Exhausted, breathless, their shaken heads they laid, braided and
pinnacled by glossycombed, against the counterledge. This is the most historic spot in all Dublin. Poisoned himself?

He glanced behind him to where a face with dark thinking eyes followed
towards the cardinal’s mausoleum. What two temperaments did they individually represent?

The scientific. On the pig’s back. Hello. When you feel like
that you often meet what you feel. —That will be done, Mr Bloom answered firmly. Successively, in descending helotic order: Poverty: that of the outdoor
hawker of imitation jewellery, the dun for the recovery of bad and
doubtful debts, the poor rate and deputy cess collector. —Tell us a story, sir. It snapped. He is a new male: his growth is his father’s decline, his youth
his father’s envy, his friend his father’s enemy. To purchase waste sandy tracts from Turkish
government and plant with eucalyptus trees. Put
down three and carry five. omelette on the. _

THE REVEREND MR HAINES LOVE: To the devil which hath made glad my young
days. _(He undoes the noose. )_ A hundred thousand apologies. She is more taking then. —Well, get it into the evening edition, councillor, Hynes said. Johnny, make room for your uncle. I could have sworn it was him. Horse looking round at
it with his plume skeowways. My present. Wish she hadn’t
called me sir. In consequence of a
family complex he has temporarily lost his memory and I believe him to
be more sinned against than sinning. House of keys, don’t you see? His name is
Keyes. Sad was the man that word to hear
that him so heavied in bowels ruthful. Dedalus’ (Div. All Tuesday
week afternoon she was hunting to match that chenille but at last she
found what she wanted at Clery’s summer sales, the very it, slightly
shopsoiled but you would never notice, seven fingers two and a penny. Half of one ear, all
the nose and both thumbs are ghouleaten. A. Cascades of ribbons. —O! shrieking, miss Kennedy cried. Woman. Mysterious. Yes. )_ This is a lonehand fight. g. Yes, he does. All he might have done. K. He passed, dallying, the windows of Brown Thomas, silk mercers. She. Avoid. MRS BREEN: Humbugging and deluthering as per usual with your cock and
bull story. Tarbarrels and bonfires
were lighted along the coastline of the four seas on the summits of the
Hill of Howth, Three Rock Mountain, Sugarloaf, Bray Head, the mountains
of Mourne, the Galtees, the Ox and Donegal and Sperrin peaks, the
Nagles and the Bograghs, the Connemara hills, the reeks of
M’Gillicuddy, Slieve Aughty, Slieve Bernagh and Slieve Bloom. Romeo. Because it was a little canarybird that came out of its little house to
tell the time that Gerty MacDowell noticed the time she was there
because she was as quick as anything about a thing like that, was Gerty
MacDowell, and she noticed at once that that foreign gentleman that was
sitting on the rocks looking was

     Cuckoo
     Cuckoo
     Cuckoo. Cassandra. —Because you don’t save, Mr Deasy said, pointing his finger. I have an unborn child in my brain. Mr Power gazed at the passing houses with rueful apprehension. And her take me to rests and her
anker of rum. Dead: an old woman’s: the grey sunken cunt of the world. No guests. The very moment. m. Halffed enthusiasts. Twelve and six a week. Can pay ten
down and the balance in yearly instalments. —Remanded, says J. Pray for him! Pray, good people!

His gouty fingers nakkering. College sports today I see. Last night I flew. You know that red Carlisle girl, Lily?

—Yes. I
didn’t mean to offend the memory of your mother. John Eglinton made a nothing pleasing mow. BLOOM: I am going to scream. —Save you kindly, says J. We can see from farther up. I too. A couched spear of acuminated granite rested
by him while at his feet reposed a savage animal of the canine tribe
whose stertorous gasps announced that he was sunk in uneasy slumber, a
supposition confirmed by hoarse growls and spasmodic movements which
his master repressed from time to time by tranquilising blows of a
mighty cudgel rudely fashioned out of paleolithic stone. )_ Hola! Hillyho!

_(Simon Dedalus’ voice hilloes in answer, somewhat sleepy but ready. How did he elucidate the mystery of an invisible attractive person, his
wife Marion (Molly) Bloom, denoted by a visible splendid sign, a lamp?

With indirect and direct verbal allusions or affirmations: with subdued
affection and admiration: with description: with impediment: with
suggestion. After her. Folly. Did Roberts pay you yet? 9. _ No-one behind. Disorderly houses. STEPHEN: _Nothung!_

_(He lifts his ashplant high with both hands and smashes the
chandelier. Curse your noisy pugnose. We eat
electric light. Let off steam. The Old Woman of Prince’s street was
there first. Burying him. He walked off quickly round the parapet. Though unusual in the Dublin area he
knew that it was not by any means unknown for desperadoes who had next
to nothing to live on to be abroad waylaying and generally terrorising
peaceable pedestrians by placing a pistol at their head in some
secluded spot outside the city proper, famished loiterers of the Thames
embankment category they might be hanging about there or simply
marauders ready to decamp with whatever boodle they could in one fell
swoop at a moment’s notice, your money or your life, leaving you there
to point a moral, gagged and garrotted. Then begin to get black, black treacle oozing
out of them. It was dear Gerald. Four for sixpence. Washing her teeth. Willy’s hat and what the girls did
with it. False lull. To a son he speaks, the son of his soul, the prince,
young Hamlet and to the son of his body, Hamnet Shakespeare, who has
died in Stratford that his namesake may live for ever. Flowerville. Rock, the head
bailiff, standing at the bar blew the foamy crown from his tankard. Usurper. She climbed their crooked tree and I. Madden up. Wiping pens in their stockings. Their upper jaw they
move. —Are you talking about the new Jerusalem? says the citizen. Recent outrage. No great hurry. Wide brim. The door and
window open at a right angle cause a draught of thirtytwo feet per
second according to the law of falling bodies. She is a bad merchant. Got
his rag out that evening on the bowlinggreen because I sailed inside
him. Had enough of
it. —A sad case, Mr Bloom said gently. Begin all right: then
hear chords a bit off: feel lost a bit. No roses
without thorns. Must be some somewhere. And just imagine that. A very short space of time through very short times of space. )_

LENEHAN: Ho! What do I here behold? Were you brushing the cobwebs off a
few quims?

BOYLAN: _(Sated, smiles. Shilling a bottle of stout. I am
getting on swimming in the photo business now. He stopped,
sniffed, stalked round it, brother, nosing closer, went round it,
sniffling rapidly like a dog all over the dead dog’s bedraggled fell. The lacquey banged loudly. O, Mairy lost the pin of her drawers. _What’s wrong with him?_ I said. Rather
a mess. I was born here. —That the lay you’re on now? says Joe. —I did not then, Mr Dedalus said. _(The bulldog growls, his scruff standing, a gobbet of pig’s knuckle
between his molars through which rabid scumspittle dribbles. The favoured rival is William Herbert, earl of Pembroke. The moment was too propitious for the
display of that discursiveness which seemed the only bond of union
among tempers so divergent. We
must take a charitable view of it. Mainly all pictures. The moon. Mr Justice
Fitzgibbon’s door (that is to sit with Mr Healy the lawyer upon the
college lands) Mal. Do you like cocoa? Wait. —Peasoup, Maggy said. Curious types. Allee samee dis bunch. Knock on the head. Just look through it. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States. LYNCH: _(Lifting Kitty from the table. Leading him the
life of the damned. Ordinary meat for them. P. —Who? says I. Or hanging up on the floor. Black
conducts, reflects, (refracts is it?), the heat. No-one. He
vividly recollected when the occurrence alluded to took place as well
as yesterday, roughly some score of years previously in the days of the
land troubles, when it took the civilised world by storm, figuratively
speaking, early in the eighties, eightyone to be correct, when he was
just turned fifteen. And as no man knows the ubicity of his tumulus nor
to what processes we shall thereby be ushered nor whether to Tophet or
to Edenville in the like way is all hidden when we would backward see
from what region of remoteness the whatness of our whoness hath fetched
his whenceness. The priest he sought. THE NYMPH: _(With wide fingers. S. Nat. )_ You have said it. Lambert, Cornelius T. Save the
trees of Ireland for the future men of Ireland on the fair hills of
Eire, O. It’s all right. I have seen it coming these years. Heseltine, and also upon the honourable Gerald
Ward A. )_ Bleibtreustrasse, Berlin, W. Blazes sprawled on bounding tyres. The nickel shavingbowl shone,
forgotten, on the parapet. Moo. Quote the textual terms in which the prospectus claimed advantages for
this thaumaturgic remedy. Lucky no woman. Prayers for the
conversion of Gladstone they had too when he was almost unconscious. General thirst. Mute. _

Where Cranly led me to get rich quick, hunting his winners among the
mudsplashed brakes, amid the bawls of bookies on their pitches and reek
of the canteen, over the motley slush. Where dreamy creamy
gull waves o’er the waters dull. has been telling some yankee interviewer. All fallen. All in all. Turns milk, makes fiddlestrings snap. Mild fire of wine kindled his veins. When we were hard up I washed them to
save the laundry bill. Her first stays I
remember. _(From the suttee pyre the flame of gum camphire ascends. Murphy. Mr Deasy stared sternly for some moments over the mantelpiece at the
shapely bulk of a man in tartan fillibegs: Albert Edward, prince of
Wales. If not what becomes of them? Decline, despair. _ Hamlet, the black prince, is Hamnet Shakespeare. E. )_ I’ll insult him. Are you hurt? I’m in a
hurry. And Doady, knock the
ashes from your pipe, the seasoned briar you still fancy when the
curfew rings for you (may it be the distant day!) and dout the light
whereby you read in the Sacred Book for the oil too has run low, and so
with a tranquil heart to bed, to rest. Still I got to know that young Dixon who dressed that sting
for me in the Mater and now he’s in Holles street where Mrs Purefoy. What facilities of transit were desirable?

When citybound frequent connection by train or tram from their
respective intermediate station or terminal. Must be an
infernal lot of bad gas round the place. M. )_

THE TIMEPIECE: _(Unportalling. Go out of mourning first. )_

RICHIE: _(With a cry of pain, his hand to his back. They are masked, with daggered
hair and bracelets of dull bells. Accordingly his first act was with characteristic _sangfroid_ to order
these commodities quietly. STEPHEN: The ghoul! Hyena!

THE MOTHER: I pray for you in my other world. U. In the darkness spirit hands were felt to flutter and when prayer by
tantras had been directed to the proper quarter a faint but increasing
luminosity of ruby light became gradually visible, the apparition of
the etheric double being particularly lifelike owing to the discharge
of jivic rays from the crown of the head and face. She kicked the bucket. D: _sua donna. FLORRY: Dreams goes by contraries. I knew his name was like a coffin. )_

BELLA, ZOE, KITTY, LYNCH, BLOOM: _(Chattering and squabbling. _Thalatta! Thalatta!_ She is our great sweet mother. The door of Ruttledge’s office whispered: ee: cree. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. )_

KEVIN EGAN: H’lo! _Bonjour!_ The _vieille ogresse_ with the _dents
jaunes_. org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks. _Lacaus esant
taratara_. Entertainment for
man and beast. Bloom’s features relax. What he learnt from his other wife Myrto (_absit
nomen!_), Socratididion’s Epipsychidion, no man, not a woman, will ever
know. Lugugugubrious. Doran Lyons in Conway’s. Dirt gets rolled up in your navel. Such persons always have. Off his chump. _Gospodi pomilyou_. _

Mr Bloom and Stephen entered the cabman’s shelter, an unpretentious
wooden structure, where, prior to then, he had rarely if ever been
before, the former having previously whispered to the latter a few
hints anent the keeper of it said to be the once famous Skin-the-Goat
Fitzharris, the invincible, though he could not vouch for the actual
facts which quite possibly there was not one vestige of truth in. C. Croppies lie
down. Murderer is still at large. —What’s on you, Garry? says he. The funeral is today. So Joe took up the letters. Three nooses round me here. What was that girl saying?. Scrape: nearly gone. But of this apart. Mastering his troubled breath, he said:

—I’ll take this one. Need
artificial irrigation. The Deity aint no nickel dime bumshow. —Very good. Beneficent Disseminator of blessings to all Thy creatures, how great
and universal must be that sweetest of Thy tyrannies which can hold in
thrall the free and the bond, the simple swain and the polished
coxcomb, the lover in the heyday of reckless passion and the husband of
maturer years. To which impromptu the
neverfailing Bloom replied without a moment’s hesitation, saying
straight off:

—To sweep the floor in the morning. Pillowed on my coat she had her hair, earwigs in the heather
scrub my hand under her nape, you’ll toss me all. —Good day to you. —Quite so, Mr Bloom dittoed. Here,
I can’t go fumbling at the damned eggs. d. A
fife and drum band is heard in the distance playing the Kol Nidre. _(She
sings. A pure mare’s nest. My kingdom for a drink. Damn all else they
are good for. Eating off his cold plate. See
your whole life in a flash. _Aq. STEPHEN: Lamb of London, who takest away the sins of our world. And
talking of that, taking it for granted he knew all about the old
favourites, he mentioned _par excellence_ Lionel’s air in _Martha,
M’appari_, which, curiously enough, he had heard or overheard, to be
more accurate, on yesterday, a privilege he keenly appreciated, from
the lips of Stephen’s respected father, sung to perfection, a study of
the number, in fact, which made all the others take a back seat. )_ Ladies and gents, cleaver
purchased by Mrs Pearcy to slay Mogg. _(He worms down through a coalhole, his brown habit trailing its tether
over rattling pebbles. Ahbeesee defeegee kelomen opeecue rustyouvee
doubleyou. If you like the epilogue look long on it:
prosperous Prospero, the good man rewarded, Lizzie, grandpa’s lump of
love, and nuncle Richie, the bad man taken off by poetic justice to the
place where the bad niggers go. Martin Cunningham emerged from a sidepath, talking gravely. —He died dead drunk, Buck Mulligan capped. What did the first drawer unlocked contain?

A Vere Foster’s handwriting copybook, property of Milly (Millicent)
Bloom, certain pages of which bore diagram drawings, marked _Papli_,
which showed a large globular head with 5 hairs erect, 2 eyes in
profile, the trunk full front with 3 large buttons, 1 triangular foot:
2 fading photographs of queen Alexandra of England and of Maud
Branscombe, actress and professional beauty: a Yuletide card, bearing
on it a pictorial representation of a parasitic plant, the legend
_Mizpah_, the date Xmas 1892, the name of the senders: from Mr + Mrs M. —Couldn’t, Stephen contrived to get out, his mental organs for the
moment refusing to dictate further. Whelps and dams of murderous foes whom none
     But we had spared. Must we accept the view of Empedocles of
Trinacria that the right ovary (the postmenstrual period, assert
others) is responsible for the birth of males or are the too long
neglected spermatozoa or nemasperms the differentiating factors or is
it, as most embryologists incline to opine, such as Culpepper,
Spallanzani, Blumenbach, Lusk, Hertwig, Leopold and Valenti, a mixture
of both? This would be tantamount to a cooperation (one of nature’s
favourite devices) between the _nisus formativus_ of the nemasperm on
the one hand and on the other a happily chosen position, _succubitus
felix_, of the passive element. Klook Klook Klook. No born gentleman, no-one with the most
rudimentary promptings of a gentleman would stoop to such particularly
loathsome conduct. Two and nine. Mr Bloom put on his hat and saw the portly figure make
its way deftly through the maze of graves. Unfortunate creature! Of
course I suppose some man is ultimately responsible for her condition. Where
you can live well, the sense is, if you work. But it has a
Hellenic ring, hasn’t it? Tripping and sunny like the buck himself. )_ My
painful duty has now been done. Yes but what about oysters. —Gentle Will is being roughly handled, gentle Mr Best said gently. _ Signed: Dedalus. Well, of course, if we knew all the
things. Dignam’s soul. Had slipped down to the foot of the
bed. Funeral be rather glum. Miss Douce, bending over the teatray, ruffled again her
nose and rolled droll fattened eyes. J. But their reign
is rover for rever and ever and ev. Fabled by mothers of memory. )_

BEN DOLLARD: _(Nakkering castanet bones in his huge padded paws, yodels
jovially in base barreltone. He tasted a spoonful from the creamy cone of his cup. Lenehan gulped to go. Lo, levin leaping
lightens in eyeblink Ireland’s westward welkin. )_ Trinity. Flybynight. —And what a character is Iago! undaunted John Eglinton exclaimed. —Doughy Daw! he cried. BLOOM: _(Shoves them back, loudly. With thee it was not as with many that will and would and wait and
never—do. —Am I awfully sunburnt?

Miss bronze unbloused her neck. Singing with his
eyes shut. Mr Kernan said with solemnity:

—_I am the resurrection and the life_. Two and three in silver and one and seven in
coppers. Open your eyes. For the
host: rejuvenation of intelligence, vicarious satisfaction. Mr Cowe Conacre (Multifarnham. Dander along all day. 1. The splendid
proportions of hips, bosom. Like a hero. A dream of
wellfilled hose. First communicants. MRS BREEN: The dear dead days beyond recall. —What sort of a kip is this? he said. ZOE: Ladies first, gentlemen after. The Butter exchange band. Pflaap! Pflaap! Blaze on. You
may mention my name. She waved her
scarf and cried: Huzzah! Sceptre wins! But in the straight on the run
home when all were in close order the dark horse Throwaway drew level,
reached, outstripped her. —What is your nation if I may ask? says the citizen. He pulled the door to
after him and slammed it twice till it shut tight. Government offices are temporarily transferred to railway sheds. If I could get that
dressmaker to make a concertina skirt like Susy Nagle’s. Better. Yes, I must. He laid the dry snot picked from his nostril on a ledge of rock,
carefully. Love, M. : 1 pack of 1 dozen creamlaid envelopes
and feintruled notepaper, watermarked, now reduced by 3: some assorted
Austrian-Hungarian coins: 2 coupons of the Royal and Privileged
Hungarian Lottery: a lowpower magnifying glass: 2 erotic photocards
showing a) buccal coition between nude senorita (rere presentation,
superior position) and nude torero (fore presentation, inferior
position) b) anal violation by male religious (fully clothed, eyes
abject) of female religious (partly clothed, eyes direct), purchased by
post from Box 32, P. Morning
after the bazaar dance when May’s band played Ponchielli’s dance of the
hours. Touch and examine shis points. —I’ll say there is much kindness in the jew, he quoted, elegantly. This
searching ordeal. )_ Sober hearsedrivers a speciality. )_

THE GREEN LODGES: Soft day, sir John! Soft day, your honour!

_(Private Carr, Private Compton and Cissy Caffrey pass beneath the
windows, singing in discord. Robinson Crusoe had to live on them. —But wait till I tell you, he said. _(He offers the other cheek. [ 14 ]


Deshil Holles Eamus. Look at all the things they can learn to do. While he was in the act of getting his bearings Mr Bloom who
noticed when he stood up that he had two flasks of presumably ship’s
rum sticking one out of each pocket for the private consumption of his
burning interior, saw him produce a bottle and uncork it or unscrew
and, applying its nozzle to his lips, take a good old delectable swig
out of it with a gurgling noise. Walks in the moonlight by the sea. But the poor buffer would have to
stand all the time with his insides entrails on show. New lease of life. STEPHEN: _(Gabbles with marionette jerks. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. Bad luck to big Ben Dollard and his John O’Gaunt. STEPHEN: _(Hands Bella a coin. Fitter for him go home to the little sleepwalking bitch he married,
Mooney, the bumbailiff’s daughter, mother kept a kip in Hardwicke
street, that used to be stravaging about the landings Bantam Lyons told
me that was stopping there at two in the morning without a stitch on
her, exposing her person, open to all comers, fair field and no favour. Father Conmee went by Daniel Bergin’s publichouse against the window of
which two unlabouring men lounged. )_

BLOOM: _(Hobbledehoy, warmgloved, mammamufflered, starred with spent
snowballs, struggles to rise. That _Portrait of Mr W. It did not move or
touch him but it was something quick and neat. Tommy and Jacky vanish there, there. The last straw. From the window of the D. and the African mission
and of the propagation of the faith and of the millions of black and
brown and yellow souls that had not received the baptism of water when
their last hour came like a thief in the night. Tainted game. A few bob a skull. Do like us. Nine twelve bloodflows chiding her childless. Well: _slainte!_ Around the
slabbed tables the tangle of wined breaths and grumbling gorges. I will arise and go to
my. Printed by the weird sisters in the year of the big wind. Piled balks. PRIVATE CARR: _(To Cissy Caffrey. g. Bloom,
holding the hat and ashplant, stands erect. B. Know thyself. Smash a
man to atoms if they got him caught. _

—Exquisite contrast, miss Kennedy said. , M. Hello, Jones, where are you going? Can’t stop,
Robinson, I am hastening to purchase the only reliable inkeraser
_Kansell,_ sold by Hely’s Ltd, 85 Dame street. Backbone in front, so to say. You have earned it. I was in the Red Sea. Buck Mulligan stood up from his laughing scribbling, laughing: and then
gravely said, honeying malice:

—I called upon the bard Kinch at his summer residence in upper
Mecklenburgh street and found him deep in the study of the _Summa
contra Gentiles_ in the company of two gonorrheal ladies, Fresh Nelly
and Rosalie, the coalquay whore. Richie Goulding listened. _(He
coughs and, bending his brow, rubs his nose thoughtfully with a
scooping hand. Try the house opposite. Good, good to hear: sorrow from them each
seemed to from both depart when first they heard. P. How can they like the sea? Yet they do. Caviare. Well, I
am here now. Ideal spot to have a quiet smoke and read the
_Church Times. You can almost taste it, can’t you?

He mounted to the parapet again and gazed out over Dublin bay, his fair
oakpale hair stirring slightly. Fine dashing young nobleman. Well tinned in
there. His articles
on Shakespeare in the _Saturday Review_ were surely brilliant. Just a chance. Father Conmee smelt incense on his right hand as he walked. _

—Bombast! the professor broke in testily. Well, yes: Bushe, yes. Blending their voices. Had to refuse the Greystones concert. A limp black missile flew out of
his talking hands. You who hear in peace. Resp. Dublin’s
prime favourite. )_ Stop!

PRIVATE CARR, PRIVATE COMPTON AND CISSY CAFFREY:

     Yet I’ve a sort of a
     Yorkshire relish for. Had it? Yes. Trouble for
nothing. And we ought to mention another Irish commentator, Mr
George Bernard Shaw. _

BELLA: _(Clapping her belly sinks back on the sofa, with a shout of
laughter. —Yes. And all the people shall say, Amen. )_ Come!

KITTY: Wait. By the way next when is it Tuesday will be the longest day. The high hall of Horne’s house had never
beheld an assembly so representative and so varied nor had the old
rafters of that establishment ever listened to a language so
encyclopaedic. Halted, he peered down the dark winding stairs and called out coarsely:

—Come up, Kinch! Come up, you fearful jesuit!

Solemnly he came forward and mounted the round gunrest. First catch your hare. Sir Bob, I
said. Nicked myself shaving. Knew Molly. My son. Innocence
in the moon. —Whose God? says the citizen. No-one spoke. I’m thirteen. E. He drew and plucked. F. Your attention! We’re nae tha fou. Misery! Misery!

*    *    *


—Hello, Simon, Father Cowley said. Only the harp. I want to see the citizen. )_

FATHER COFFEY: _(Yawns, then chants with a hoarse croak. And her boys, were they getting on well at
Belvedere? Was that so? Father Conmee was very glad indeed to hear
that. It’s a toss up, I think. People looking after her. )_ What?

STEPHEN: _Ah non, par exemple!_ The intellectual imagination! With me
all or not at all. Free ad. )_ You hit him without provocation. Up in the Coombe with chummies and streetwalkers and then the
rest of the year sober as a judge. Gulp. Stephen rose. Shut your eyes and open your mouth. Well, it’s a sea. _(He throws a leg astride and, pressing with
horseman’s knees, calls in a hard voice. Go and lose more. —But do you know what a nation means? says John Wyse. Yes, puritanisme, it
does though, Saint Joseph’s sovereign thievery alors (Bandez!) Figne
toi trop. Every phenomenon has a natural cause. And that
fellow today at the graveside in the brown macintosh. This. Shakespeares were as common as Murphies. —We can all supply mental pabulum, Mr O’Madden Burke said. I polish the sky. Mr Bloom, breathless, caught in a whirl of wild newsboys near the
offices of the _Irish Catholic_ and _Dublin Penny Journal_, called:

—Mr Crawford! A moment!

—_Telegraph_! Racing special!

—What is it? Myles Crawford said, falling back a pace. Smile. —You’re not a believer, are you? Haines asked. The dog yelped
running to them, reared up and pawed them, dropping on all fours, again
reared up at them with mute bearish fawning. Do others see me so? Quick, far and daring. ,
K. Still harping on his daughter. He smiled with troubled affection at the kitchen window. Found drowned. —Hairy Iopas, says the citizen, that exploded volcano, the darling of
all countries and the idol of his own. —Pilate! Wy don’t you old back that owlin mob?

A zealous man, however. Also hearses. A bevy of scampering newsboys rushed down the steps, scattering in all
directions, yelling, their white papers fluttering. Right enough the harbours were there
only no ships ever called. —Decree _nisi,_ says J. —Nannan? says Joe. —He’s at rest, he said, in the middle of his people, old Dan O’. He deposited the quid in his gob and, chewing and with some slow
stammers, proceeded:

—We come up this morning eleven o’clock. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation. Dignam laid in clay of an apoplexy and
after hard drought, please God, rained, a bargeman coming in by water a
fifty mile or thereabout with turf saying the seed won’t sprout, fields
athirst, very sadcoloured and stunk mightily, the quags and tofts too. Dull business by day, land agents,
temperance hotel, Falconer’s railway guide, civil service college,
Gill’s, catholic club, the industrious blind. Most
brutal thing. Worst of all at night Mrs Duggan told me in the City
Arms. —Have you the key? a voice asked. What are they?

_—The Evening Telegraph. —Still running, says he. Its ferrule followed lightly on the path, squealing at his heels. Everyman or Noman. Mr Power took his arm. Well done, thou good and faithful
servant!

There are sins or (let us call them as the world calls them) evil
memories which are hidden away by man in the darkest places of the
heart but they abide there and wait. Ruin them. Crosseyed Walter sir I
did sir. He could hear, of course, all kinds of words changing colour like those
crabs about Ringsend in the morning burrowing quickly into all colours
of different sorts of the same sand where they had a home somewhere
beneath or seemed to. Mr Dedalus, peering through his glasses towards the veiled sun, hurled
a mute curse at the sky. Plovers on toast. The body to be exhumed. What dreams would
he have, not seeing? Life a dream for him. _(She holds his hand which is feeling for her nipple. —That on his empire, Stephen said, the sun never sets. He touched the thin elbow gently: then took the limp seeing hand to
guide it forward. He took the eager card, glanced, not saw, laid down unglanced, looked,
asked, creaked, asked:

—Is he?. Gerty could picture the whole scene in the church, the
stained glass windows lighted up, the candles, the flowers and the blue
banners of the blessed Virgin’s sodality and Father Conroy was helping
Canon O’Hanlon at the altar, carrying things in and out with his eyes
cast down. Kraa. Stephen fumbles in his pocket and, taking
out a banknote by its corner, hands it to her. Set of dancing masters! Do you know what
it is? They were never worth a roasted fart to Ireland. Tides, myriadislanded, within her, blood not
mine, _oinopa ponton_, a winedark sea. Come on all!

_(She seizes Florry and waltzes her. The ferreteyed porkbutcher folded the sausages he had snipped off with
blotchy fingers, sausagepink. VIRAG: _(Agueshaken, profuse yellow spawn foaming over his bony
epileptic lips. Taking Stephen on one side he had the customary doleful ditty to tell. Table talk. He hummed, prolonging in solemn echo the closes of the bars:

     Don Giovanni, a cenar teco
     M’invitasti. From inside information extending over a series of years Mr Bloom was
rather inclined to poohpooh the suggestion as egregious balderdash for,
pending that consummation devoutly to be or not to be wished for, he
was fully cognisant of the fact that their neighbours across the
channel, unless they were much bigger fools than he took them for,
rather concealed their strength than the opposite. That he had
prepared his speech I do not believe for there was not even one
shorthandwriter in the hall. They wag
their beards at Bloom. —That is where Childs was murdered, he said. Did the guest comply with his host’s request?

Doubly, by appending his signature in Irish and Roman characters. On the middle shelf a
chipped eggcup containing pepper, a drum of table salt, four
conglomerated black olives in oleaginous paper, an empty pot of
Plumtree’s potted meat, an oval wicker basket bedded with fibre and
containing one Jersey pear, a halfempty bottle of William Gilbey and
Co’s white invalid port, half disrobed of its swathe of coralpink
tissue paper, a packet of Epps’s soluble cocoa, five ounces of Anne
Lynch’s choice tea at 2/- per lb in a crinkled leadpaper bag, a
cylindrical canister containing the best crystallised lump sugar, two
onions, one, the larger, Spanish, entire, the other, smaller, Irish,
bisected with augmented surface and more redolent, a jar of Irish Model
Dairy’s cream, a jug of brown crockery containing a naggin and a
quarter of soured adulterated milk, converted by heat into water,
acidulous serum and semisolidified curds, which added to the quantity
subtracted for Mr Bloom’s and Mrs Fleming’s breakfasts, made one
imperial pint, the total quantity originally delivered, two cloves, a
halfpenny and a small dish containing a slice of fresh ribsteak. Sixteen years
ago he was twentytwo too. All crossed themselves and stood up. Pothunters too. The blond girl’s slim fingers reckoned the fruits. Old and secret she had entered from a morning world, maybe a
messenger. You ought to eat more solid food. A blind stripling stood tapping the curbstone with his slender cane. Ten years ago:
ninetyfour he died yes that’s right the big fire at Arnott’s. Feels locked out of it. I’d carry a sandwichboard only
the girl in the office told me they’re full up for the next three
weeks, man. A corpse is meat
gone bad. —That’s a good bit of steel, repeated he, examining his formidable
_stiletto_. Mother Grogan was, one imagines, a kinswoman of Mary Ann. )_ Cough it
up, man. Undercutting. With what antagonistic sentiments were his subsequent reflections
affected?

Envy, jealousy, abnegation, equanimity. Common pin, eh? He threw it on the road. I moved
among them on the frozen Liffey, that I, a changeling, among the
spluttering resin fires. In haste. Something evidently riled them in
his death. (He strides off on stiff cavalry legs. Also the two sluts in the Coombe would listen. —That old pelters, the editor said. I was with him
this morning at poor little Paddy Dignam’s. And
the little mirror in his silk hat. Astounding! In her lay a Godframed Godgiven
preformed possibility which thou hast fructified with thy modicum of
man’s work. —Hello. la tua pace. Woman’s
reason. No passout
checks. And been to barber he have. She did get flushed in the wind. _)

BLOOM: I beg. Assuefaction minorates
atrocities (as Tully saith of his darling Stoics) and Hamlet his father
showeth the prince no blister of combustion. Come. Armed heroes spring up from furrows. Looking for
trouble. Running into cakeshops. Where is it?

—In the paper this morning. Dignam (son), Bernard Corrigan
(brother-in-law), Jno. The voice, new warmth, speaking. If you ask him to have a drink first thing he
does he outs with the watch to see what he ought to imbibe. Open hallway. If there is a signpost planted
by the Touring Club at Stepaside who procured that public boon? I who
lost my way and contributed to the columns of the _Irish Cyclist_ the
letter headed _In darkest Stepaside_. —It does, Mr Bloom said. But, to change the venue
to the Bulgar and the Basque, have you made up your mind whether you
like or dislike women in male habiliments? _(With a dry snigger. —_Ma, sul serio, eh?_ Almidano Artifoni said. He is seated on a milkwhite horse
with long flowing crimson tail, richly caparisoned, with golden
headstall. They save up three and tenpence in a red tin letterbox moneybox. Us come right in on your invite, see? Up to you, matey. Play on her
heartstrings pursestrings too. I am sorry
you did not like my last letter. Creaky
wardrobe. The boy of act one is the mature man of act five. Water
cold soft. The
blooming stud was too small for the buttonhole of the shirt, blooming
end to it. Gelded too: a stump of black guttapercha wagging limp
between their haunches. Shut up. Courthouse my eye and your pockets hanging down with gold and silver. And really did great good in his
way. By went his eyes. What useful discovery did Socrates learn
from Xanthippe?

—Dialectic, Stephen answered: and from his mother how to bring thoughts
into the world. Silly, isn’t it? Cemetery put in of course
on account of the symmetry. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1. Dope is my only hope. Never forget it. The vicinity of the young man he certainly relished, educated,
_distingué_ and impulsive into the bargain, far and away the pick of
the bunch though you wouldn’t think he had it in him yet you would. But all those
twenty years what do you suppose poor Penelope in Stratford was doing
behind the diamond panes?

Do and do. To catch up and walk behind her if she went
slowly, behind her moving hams. Alice will feel the pullpull. Why?
Because you have the cursed jesuit strain in you, only it’s injected
the wrong way. )_ Blazes
Kate! Up to sample or your money back. Cot’s plood and prandypalls,
none! Not a pite of sheeses? Thrust syphilis down to hell and with him
those other licensed spirits. Corley at the first go-off was inclined to suspect it was something to
do with Stephen being fired out of his digs for bringing in a bloody
tart off the street. Tell us in plain words. —Ay, says I. )_

MARION: Nebrakada! Femininum!

_(The camel, lifting a foreleg, plucks from a tree a large mango fruit,
offers it to his mistress, blinking, in his cloven hoof, then droops
his head and, grunting, with uplifted neck, fumbles to kneel. Glad to hear that, old man. He springs off into vacuum. By Bloom:

     Heigho, heigho,
     Heigho, heigho. Consistent with. Within womb won he worship. Justice. A voice, sweettoned and sustained, called to him from the sea. Off an inward bound tram stepped the reverend Nicholas Dudley C. The telephone whirred. Out of
an advertisement. You bitch’s bast. Sir Walter Ralegh
brought from the new world that potato and that weed, the one a killer
of pestilence by absorption, the other a poisoner of the ear, eye,
heart, memory, will, understanding, all. Mushy like, tell by
their eye, on the sly. Heart on his sleeve. A traveller for blottingpaper. BOYLAN: _(To Bloom, over his shoulder. —The reverend gentleman read the service too quickly, don’t you think?
Mr Kernan said with reproof. Might have
lost my life too with that mangongwheeltracktrolleyglarejuggernaut only
for presence of mind. Squeezing or. The _hoi polloi_ of jarvies or stevedores or
whatever they were after a cursory examination turned their eyes
apparently dissatisfied, away though one redbearded bibulous
individual, portion of whose hair was greyish, a sailor probably, still
stared for some appreciable time before transferring his rapt attention
to the floor. Lovely seaside girls. —That’ll be all right, Myles Crawford said more calmly. Lovely shame. Refuge of sinners. Our Lady’s Hospice for the
dying. —There it is, Red Murray said. Coming home it was a gorgeous winter’s
night on the Featherbed Mountain. Bloom mur: best references. U. Mr Bloom read again: _The beautiful woman. Burying the dead. _

_(Stephen thrusts the ashplant on him and slowly holds out his hands,
his head going back till both hands are a span from his breast, down
turned, in planes intersecting, the fingers about to part, the left
being higher. No, Leopold. )_ At your
service. There’s a hurricane
blowing. See that? The gulls swooped silently, two, then all
from their heights, pouncing on prey. Eight children he has anyway. P. Stephen, greeting, then all amort, followed a lubber jester, a
wellkempt head, newbarbered, out of the vaulted cell into a shattering
daylight of no thought. Best moment
to attack one in pudding time. VIRAG: _(His face impassive, laughs in a rich feminine key. His midriff yearned then upward, sank within him, yearned more longly,
longingly. She sipped distastefully her brew, hot tea, a sip, sipped, sweet tea. —Three pints, Terry, says Joe. The chair of the resident
indeed stood vacant before the hearth but on either flank of it the
figure of Bannon in explorer’s kit of tweed shorts and salted cowhide
brogues contrasted sharply with the primrose elegance and townbred
manners of Malachi Roland St John Mulligan. Lovers: yum yum. Slumming. —Imperthnthn thnthnthn, bootssnout sniffed rudely, as he retreated as
she threatened as he had come. Be pfrwritt. —Nasty bold Jacky! she cried. —What’s the best news? he asked. BLOOM: _(Murmurs with hangdog meekness glum. Quick. Hole. —_New York World_, the editor said, excitedly pushing back his straw
hat. Nosey Flynn sipped his grog. Then he starts hauling and mauling and talking to him in Irish and the
old towser growling, letting on to answer, like a duet in the opera. I cannot but extol
the virile potency of the old bucko that could still knock another
child out of her. —No, now, urged Lenehan. Little. And childe
Leopold did up his beaver for to pleasure him and took apertly somewhat
in amity for he never drank no manner of mead which he then put by and
anon full privily he voided the more part in his neighbour glass and
his neighbour nist not of this wile. )_
Woman. A monkey puzzle rocket burst, spluttering in darting crackles. Look out for squalls. Anybody here for
there? Who’ll dance? Clear the table. Daughter engaged
to that chap in the inland revenue office with the motor. As
you were before you rested. I appeal for clemency in the name of the most sacred word our vocal
organs have ever been called upon to speak. His sins. You know that one? _I’m bloody
sorry I did it,_ says he, _but I declare to God I thought the
archbishop was inside. ; the rev. Martin Cunningham put
out his arm and, wrenching back the handle, shoved the door open with
his knee. A clack. Mr Power and Mr Dedalus followed. E. That’s why he
gets them. Shebronze, dealing from her oblique jar thick syrupy liquor for his
lips, looked as it flowed (flower in his coat: who gave him?), and
syrupped with her voice:

—Fine goods in small parcels. Soulfully. He’s as like it as damn
it. Women
he won to him, tender people, a whore of Babylon, ladies of justices,
bully tapsters’ wives. Come near. _(Mute inhuman faces throng forward, leering, vanishing, gibbering,
Booloohoom. Too much for me now. Why do you not
write your poetry in that language? _Bella Poetria_! It is so melodious
and full. Want a souppot as
big as the Phoenix park. It was given me by a man I don’t know his
name. Otherwise we would never have
such inventions as X rays, for instance. Saint Frusquin was her sire. It slows to in front
of the house. Something in the air. Robert Emmet was
buried here by torchlight, wasn’t he? Making his rounds. Hasn’t lost them anyhow. Their little frolic after meals. Then I
will tell you all. The huguenots
brought that here. Where are the other two
gone?

—Who? the professor said, turning. —How do you do, Mr Dollard?

—Eh? How do? How do? Ben Dollard’s vague bass answered, turning an
instant from Father Cowley’s woe. They stick by one another like
glue. Martha, chestnote, return!

_—Come!_

It soared, a bird, it held its flight, a swift pure cry, soar silver
orb it leaped serene, speeding, sustained, to come, don’t spin it out
too long long breath he breath long life, soaring high, high
resplendent, aflame, crowned, high in the effulgence symbolistic, high,
of the etherial bosom, high, of the high vast irradiation everywhere
all soaring all around about the all, the endlessnessnessness. Duke street. —You think me an old fogey and an old tory, his thoughtful voice said. I oughtn’t to have got myself swept along with those
medicals. _ He hopes to win in the _gros lots_. Pom. —Wife well, I suppose? M’Coy’s changed voice said. Her eyes fixed themselves on him, wide in
alarm, yet smiling. Moral pub. And still his
muttonchop whiskers grew. Feel better then. The
warmth of her couched body rose on the air, mingling with the fragrance
of the tea she poured. Clergymen’s discussions of the historicity of Jesus. Neat
certainly. Here. Something galoptious. The bloodboltered shambles in act five is a forecast of the
concentration camp sung by Mr Swinburne. —In all his pristine beauty, Mr Power said. All days make
their end. The drunken little
costdrawer and his brother, the cornet player. —The sheeny! Buck Mulligan cried. , P. A dedale of lusty youth, noble every student there. HELLO THERE, CENTRAL!


At various points along the eight lines tramcars with motionless
trolleys stood in their tracks, bound for or from Rathmines,
Rathfarnham, Blackrock, Kingstown and Dalkey, Sandymount Green,
Ringsend and Sandymount Tower, Donnybrook, Palmerston Park and Upper
Rathmines, all still, becalmed in short circuit. At the
dance night she met him, dance of the hours. Now your best French polish. They drove on past Brian Boroimhe house. _(They release him. What attracted his attention lying on the apron of the dresser?

Four polygonal fragments of two lacerated scarlet betting tickets,
numbered 8 87, 88 6. Clock clacked. J. And all the tiny tiny fernfoils trembled of
maidenhair. Course everything is dear if you
don’t want it. Positing what protasis would the contraction for such several schemes
become a natural and necessary apodosis?

Given a guarantee equal to the sum sought, the support, by deed of gift
and transfer vouchers during donor’s lifetime or by bequest after
donor’s painless extinction, of eminent financiers (Blum Pasha,
Rothschild, Guggenheim, Hirsch, Montefiore, Morgan, Rockefeller)
possessing fortunes in 6 figures, amassed during a successful life, and
joining capital with opportunity the thing required was done. Who drank more quickly?

Bloom, having the advantage of ten seconds at the initiation and
taking, from the concave surface of a spoon along the handle of which a
steady flow of heat was conducted, three sips to his opponent’s one,
six to two, nine to three. You wouldn’t kneel
down to pray for your mother on her deathbed when she asked you. Must be a new moon out, she
said. Besides, who saw?

_(Staggering Bob, a whitepolled calf, thrusts a ruminating head with
humid nostrils through the foliage. Good Bacon: gone musty. They jingled then in the
air and against the wood as he locked his desk drawer. )_ That antiquated commode. But for example the chap that wallops the big drum. Whores in Turkish graveyards. Tap. Talk about apple
dumplings, _piuttosto_. Beyond a doubt. The sea they think they hear. —What’s your cry? Glass of bitter? Glass of bitter, please, and a
sloegin for me. A gallant scene in truth it made. For his
nutriment he shewed how he would feed himself exclusively upon a diet
of savoury tubercles and fish and coneys there, the flesh of these
latter prolific rodents being highly recommended for his purpose, both
broiled and stewed with a blade of mace and a pod or two of capsicum
chillies. The eyes that were fastened upon her set
her pulses tingling. reset his smooth
watch in his interior pocket as he came down the presbytery steps. Mr Bloom came to Kildare street. O please, Mr Policeman, I’m lost in the
wood. Stephen (once) by the
reverend Charles Malone C. Over the stones. Talk. The boatman nodded towards the north of the bay with some disdain. Wait. _Terribilia meditans_. Stale smoky air hung in the study with the smell of drab abraded
leather of its chairs. Kind of stuff you read: in the track
of the sun. Pour out the tea there. _(He gobbles
gluttonously with turkey wattles. Did you
see his eye? He looked upon you to lust after you. 1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License. Join on right here. She too. —Is that so? Mr Bloom asked. PRIVATE COMPTON: He doesn’t half want a thick ear, the blighter. _Liliata
rutilantium. He went on by la maison Claire. It was Madame Vera Verity, directress of the Woman Beautiful
page of the Princess Novelette, who had first advised her to try
eyebrowleine which gave that haunting expression to the eyes, so
becoming in leaders of fashion, and she had never regretted it. Ba. )_. —Boohoo! Lenehan wept with a little noise. )_ I forgive him
for insulting me. Kieran and S. On
another star. Four and nine. Newly
plastered and painted. )_ Ticktacktwo
wouldyousetashoe? _(He performs juggler’s tricks, draws red, orange,
yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet silk handkerchiefs from his
mouth. To curb this inconvenient (which he concluded due to a
suppression of latent heat), having advised with certain counsellors of
worth and inspected into this matter, he had resolved to purchase in
fee simple for ever the freehold of Lambay island from its holder, lord
Talbot de Malahide, a Tory gentleman of note much in favour with our
ascendancy party. They were both on the way to the boat and he tried
to drown. How are things?

—Hello, Bob, old man, Mr Dedalus answered, stopping. Another little interesting point,
the amours of whores and chummies, to put it in common parlance,
reminded him Irish soldiers had as often fought for England as against
her, more so, in fact. Biting her nether lip, hooking the placket of her skirt. It might thrill her first. Ticking. )_

BLOOM: I wanted then to have now concluded. What they called nymphs, for example. He drank at her bidding. Hamlet, I am thy father’s spirit
     Doomed for a certain time to walk the earth. Boosed at five
o’clock. J. From the
reports of eyewitnesses it transpires that the seismic waves were
accompanied by a violent atmospheric perturbation of cyclonic
character. Something going on: some sodality. Behind
him Cashel Boyle O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell, with
stickumbrelladustcoat dangling, shunned the lamp before Mr Law Smith’s
house and, crossing, walked along Merrion square. Half dream. —But look this way, he said, rose of Castile. Lines in her eyes. And, says Mr Dixon, if ever he got
scent of a cattleraider in Roscommon or the wilds of Connemara or a
husbandman in Sligo that was sowing as much as a handful of mustard or
a bag of rapeseed out he’d run amok over half the countryside rooting
up with his horns whatever was planted and all by lord Harry’s orders. BLOOM: _(Squire of dames, in dinner jacket with wateredsilk facings,
blue masonic badge in his buttonhole, black bow and mother-of-pearl
studs, a prismatic champagne glass tilted in his hand. Ireland
expects that every man this day will do his duty. When one reads these strange
pages of one long gone one feels that one is at one with one who
once. Ice cones. Enormously I desiderate your
domination. )_ Know what I mean? Nephew of the vicechancellor. The quoits are loose. He looked at the cattle, blurred in silver heat. BOYLAN: (Clasps himself. She rolled
downhill at Rialto bridge to tempt me with her flow of animal spirits. )_ Take that! _(He recorks himself. How was the irritation allayed?

He removed his collar, with contained black necktie and collapsible
stud, from his neck to a position on the left of the table. In the trousers I left off. —Health, Joe, says I. Ladylike in exquisite contrast. Green eyes, I
see you. But I say: Let my
country die for me. Like those bubblyjocular Roman matrons one reads of in Elephantuliasis. He set off again to walk by Stephen’s side. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. The face of a streetwalker glazed and haggard under a black straw hat
peered askew round the door of the shelter palpably reconnoitring on
her own with the object of bringing more grist to her mill. Bloom. —Ha ha, Alf, says Joe. He turned and halted by the slanted bookcart. )_ After having said which I took my
departure. Way out. The professor, returning by way of the files, swept his hand across
Stephen’s and Mr O’Madden Burke’s loose ties. Substituting Bloom for
Stephen Blephen would have passed successively through the preparatory,
junior, middle and senior grades of the intermediate and through the
matriculation, first arts, second arts and arts degree courses of the
royal university. He hesitates. D. Whole earnest. She trudges,
schlepps, trains, drags, trascines her load. She took a folded postcard from her handbag. Might meet a robber or two. She’s well nourished, I tell you. Just at the gate. —And I seen a man killed in Trieste by an Italian chap. Patrick’s Purgatory, the Salmon Leap, Maynooth college refectory,
Curley’s hole, the three birthplaces of the first duke of Wellington,
the rock of Cashel, the bog of Allen, the Henry Street Warehouse,
Fingal’s Cave—all these moving scenes are still there for us today
rendered more beautiful still by the waters of sorrow which have passed
over them and by the rich incrustations of time. Can’t he hear the difference? Think he’s that way inclined a bit. Breath? What you eat and drink
gives that. His green eye flashes bloodshot. The three
brothers Shakespeare. )_ I hate a rotter that’s insincere. What’s your programme today? Ay. Sitting there after till near two
taking out her hairpins. The bloody nag took fright and the old
mongrel after the car like bloody hell and all the populace shouting
and laughing and the old tinbox clattering along the street. )_

BLOOM: _(Quickly. That will be a great race tomorrow
in Germany. —He’s a bloody dark horse himself, says Joe. Bothered, he wanted
Power and cider. Stephen Dedalus and Lynch pass through the crowd close to the
redcoats. Give me more than that. He creaked to and fro, tiptoing up nearer heaven by the altitude of a
chopine, and, covered by the noise of outgoing, said low:

—Is it your view, then, that she was not faithful to the poet?

Alarmed face asks me. )_ I’m melting!

FLORRY: _(Points to Stephen. Suicide. First gentleman told Mina that was so. If he
doesn’t break down. Eh. Mistaken identity. The delegation,
present in full force, consisted of Commendatore Bacibaci Beninobenone
(the semiparalysed _doyen_ of the party who had to be assisted to his
seat by the aid of a powerful steam crane), Monsieur Pierrepaul
Petitépatant, the Grandjoker Vladinmire Pokethankertscheff, the
Archjoker Leopold Rudolph von Schwanzenbad-Hodenthaler, Countess Marha
Virága Kisászony Putrápesthi, Hiram Y. )_

BLOOM’S BOYS:

     The wren, the wren,
     The king of all birds,
     Saint Stephen’s his day
     Was caught in the furze. Lord, I mustn’t lilt here. ’Tis the hour, methinks, when the winejug,
metaphorically speaking, is most grateful in Ye ancient hostelry. Why was the host (victim predestined) sad?

He wished that a tale of a deed should be told of a deed not by him
should by him not be told. —Yes, Martin Cunningham said, fingering his beard. Best thing could happen him. General paralysis of the insane!

He swept the mirror a half circle in the air to flash the tidings
abroad in sunlight now radiant on the sea. He ought to physic himself a bit. J. Throw them
the bone. Kosher. General applause. Pity. Auditively, Bloom’s: The traditional accent of the ecstasy of
catastrophe. Height of a tower? No, she can jump me. Let me see. A French Celt said that. —Thank you, Stephen said, taking a cigarette. A dog barks in the
distance. )_

BELLO: _(Sneers. Why with satisfaction?

Because the odour inhaled corresponded to other odours inhaled of other
ungual fragments, picked and lacerated by Master Bloom, pupil of Mrs
Ellis’s juvenile school, patiently each night in the act of brief
genuflection and nocturnal prayer and ambitious meditation. Positive: he included mention of a performance by Mrs
Bandmann Palmer of _Leah_ at the Gaiety Theatre, 46, 47, 48, 49 South
King street, an invitation to supper at Wynn’s (Murphy’s) Hotel, 35, 36
and 37 Lower Abbey street, a volume of peccaminous pornographical
tendency entituled _Sweets of Sin_, anonymous author a gentleman of
fashion, a temporary concussion caused by a falsely calculated movement
in the course of a postcenal gymnastic display, the victim (since
completely recovered) being Stephen Dedalus, professor and author,
eldest surviving son of Simon Dedalus, of no fixed occupation, an
aeronautical feat executed by him (narrator) in the presence of a
witness, the professor and author aforesaid, with promptitude of
decision and gymnastic flexibility. —Yes, he said. As he strode past Mr Bloom’s dental windows the sway of his dustcoat
brushed rudely from its angle a slender tapping cane and swept onwards,
having buffeted a thewless body. _

He held up a forefinger of warning. T. _

THE REVEREND MR HAINES LOVE: _(Raises high behind the celebrant’s
petticoat, revealing his grey bare hairy buttocks between which a
carrot is stuck. Because
he closed my carriage door outside sir Thornley Stoker’s one sleety day
during the cold snap of February ninetythree when even the grid of the
wastepipe and the ballstop in my bath cistern were frozen. My cockle hat and staff and
hismy sandal shoon. _


He turned a happy patch’s smirk to Stephen, saying:

—The disguise, I fear, is thin. It was the men’s temperance retreat
conducted by the missioner, the reverend John Hughes S. —Come, Mr Bloom said. With brief suspiration he reassumed
the candle, reascended the stairs, reapproached the door of the front
room, hallfloor, and reentered. Father Conmee stopped three little schoolboys at the corner of Mountjoy
square. Get down,
baldpoll! A choir gives back menace and echo, assisting about the
altar’s horns, the snorted Latin of jackpriests moving burly in their
albs, tonsured and oiled and gelded, fat with the fat of kidneys of
wheat. Where is that Parsee tower of silence? Eaten by
birds. )_

BELLO: _(Satirically. )_
Peep! Bopeep! _(He wheels twins in a perambulator. I know him. —Yes, sir. , eon: Magee, John Eglinton. Waltzing
in Stamer street with Ignatius Gallaher on a Sunday morning, the
landlady’s two hats pinned on his head. Esthetes they are. They cowered
under their reef of counter, waiting on footstools, crates upturned,
waiting for their teas to draw. A birdcage hung in the
sunny window of her house when she was a girl. Mr Dedalus sighed resignedly. Why we think a
deformed person or a hunchback clever if he says something we might
say. Hurley, C. They
shake out the threepenny bits and sixpences and coax out the pennies
with the blade of a knife. And he starts reading them out:

—Gordon, Barnfield crescent, Exeter; Redmayne of Iffley, Saint Anne’s
on Sea: the wife of William T Redmayne of a son. Stephen, still trembling at his soul’s cry,
heard warm running sunlight and in the air behind him friendly words. Valise I have a particular fancy for. Wait while you wait. Doyle, she said, and _Love’s Old Sweet Song_. A husky fifenote blew. Mr Bloom moved forward, raising his troubled eyes. And after: thinking alone. She put on nine pounds
after weaning. Never mind. Meanwhile the skill and patience of the physician had brought about a
happy _accouchement. She does whack it, by George. Nothing she can eat? He glanced
round him. Commit no nuisance. P. The standard of Zion is hoisted. Mrs
Bellingham, Mrs Yelverton Barry and the Honourable Mrs Mervyn Talboys
rush forward with their handkerchiefs to sop it up. Way in. And Mr Sheehy himself? Still in London. As he came near Mr Dedalus greeted:

—Hold that fellow with the bad trousers. May as well get her sympathy. The epicentre appears to
have been that part of the metropolis which constitutes the Inn’s Quay
ward and parish of Saint Michan covering a surface of fortyone acres,
two roods and one square pole or perch. BLOOM: _(In Svengali’s fur overcoat, with folded arms and Napoleonic
forelock, frowns in ventriloquial exorcism with piercing eagle glance
towards the door. —Good, Mr Bloom said. In sweetly varying voices Buck Mulligan read his tablet:

_Everyman His Own Wife
or
A Honeymoon in the Hand
(a national immorality in three orgasms)
by
Ballocky Mulligan. Their full buck eyes regarded him as he went by, amid
the sweet oaten reek of horsepiss. We two the last. —Who made those allegations? says Alf. )_ Sacred Heart
of Mary, where were you at all at all?

_(Bloom, mumbling, his eyes downcast, begins to bestow his parcels in
his filled pockets but desists, muttering. Lawrence (martyr, 10
August): the monthly recurrence known as the new moon with the old moon
in her arms: the posited influence of celestial on human bodies: the
appearance of a star (1st magnitude) of exceeding brilliancy dominating
by night and day (a new luminous sun generated by the collision and
amalgamation in incandescence of two nonluminous exsuns) about the
period of the birth of William Shakespeare over delta in the recumbent
neversetting constellation of Cassiopeia and of a star (2nd magnitude)
of similar origin but of lesser brilliancy which had appeared in and
disappeared from the constellation of the Corona Septentrionalis about
the period of the birth of Leopold Bloom and of other stars of
(presumably) similar origin which had (effectively or presumably)
appeared in and disappeared from the constellation of Andromeda about
the period of the birth of Stephen Dedalus, and in and from the
constellation of Auriga some years after the birth and death of Rudolph
Bloom, junior, and in and from other constellations some years before
or after the birth or death of other persons: the attendant phenomena
of eclipses, solar and lunar, from immersion to emersion, abatement of
wind, transit of shadow, taciturnity of winged creatures, emergence of
nocturnal or crepuscular animals, persistence of infernal light,
obscurity of terrestrial waters, pallor of human beings. Fate that is. (He stops, points at
Lynch’s cap, smiles, laughs. BLOOM: _(Shakes Cissy Caffrey’s shoulders. —May I say a word to your telephone, missy? he asked roguishly. Were those two buttons of my waistcoat open all the
time? Women enjoy it. STEPHEN: Out of it now. Leave
him under an obligation: costs nothing. Molly, her underjaw
stuck out, head back, about the farmer in the ridingboots and spurs at
the horse show. Baby. _Ex!_

Waiting, guvnor? Most deciduously. GENTLEMEN OF THE PRESS


Grossbooted draymen rolled barrels dullthudding out of Prince’s stores
and bumped them up on the brewery float. —. With beaded mitre and with crozier, stalled upon his throne, widower of
a widowed see, with upstiffed _omophorion_, with clotted hinderparts. And may the Lord have mercy on your
soul. She fixes her bluecircled hollow eyesockets on Stephen and opens
her toothless mouth uttering a silent word. —Lord love a duck, he said. —By the bye there’s a tuningfork in there on the. —After all, Haines began. Not by a long shot if I know it. The Mosaic code has
superseded the law of the jungle. )_ The reason is because
the fundamental and the dominant are separated by the greatest possible
interval which. by W. Card in my high grade ha. No
tram in sight. Hail fellow well met the next moment. Uneatable fox. But then Shakespeare has
no rhymes: blank verse. —’Tis all that. _Merci. Moment before the next
Lessing says. Did he find the problems of the inhabitability of the planets and their
satellites by a race, given in species, and of the possible social and
moral redemption of said race by a redeemer, easier of solution?

Of a different order of difficulty. Somewhere here lord Edward Fitzgerald escaped from
major Sirr. Robbing Peter to pay Paul. How they
change the venue when it’s not what they like. )_ When my country takes
her place among the nations of the earth, then, and not till then, let
my epitaph be written. PRIVATE COMPTON: We don’t give a bugger who he is. The carriage
wheeling by Farrell’s statue united noiselessly their unresisting
knees. God,
such music, Ben. She put the first nail in his coffin. Troy
measure. O. The twining stresses, two by two. _(Tom and Sam Bohee, coloured coons in white duck suits, scarlet socks,
upstarched Sambo chokers and large scarlet asters in their buttonholes,
leap out. Corsets for men. THE VIRAGO: Green above the red, says he. Gone the nine men’s
morrice with caps of indices. Do you
know what he did last night?

Her hand ceased to rummage. _Amplius. Screams of newsboys barefoot in the hall rushed near and the door was
flung open. And while Edy Boardman was with little Tommy behind the pushcar she was
just thinking would the day ever come when she could call herself his
little wife to be. A revolution must come on the
due instalments plan. S. Bloo smi qui go. She would have given
worlds to know what it was. Yes, Mr Bloom crossed bridge of Yessex. He faced about and back again. They split up in groups and
scattered, saluting, towards their beats. Rrr. )_ Show! Hide! Show!
Plough her! More! Shoot!

BELLA, ZOE, FLORRY, KITTY: Ho ho! Ha ha! Hee hee!

LYNCH: _(Points. What also stimulated him in his cogitations?

The financial success achieved by Ephraim Marks and Charles A. Come. 13. The coffin lay on its bier before the chancel, four tall yellow
candles at its corners. Talking of one thing or another. The change of name. )_ Byby, Poldy! Byby, Papli!

BLOOM: _(Clasps his head. Come in, all is prepared. —Not at all, says Martin. —Mind, Joe, says I. I see them pop off every day in the Mater and
Richmond and cut up into tripes in the dissectingroom. He’s a gentleman, a poet. Ah, Dedalus, the Greeks! I must teach you. Lenehan’s lips over the counter lisped a low whistle of decoy. Policeman’s shoulders. Far. There
he is sitting there. Gambling. Dosing it with Edwards’ desiccated soup. —Mind you, I’m not saying that it’s all a pure invention, he resumed. All are washed in the
blood of the sun. Cocoanut skulls, monkeys, not even
closed at first, sour milk in their swaddles and tainted curds. Chips. And very neat he keeps it too: trim
grass and edgings. She’d like scent of that
kind. ; the rev. I hear the ruin of all space, shattered glass and toppling
masonry, and time one livid final flame. When you think of
them all it does seem a waste of wood. As he mostly sees double
To wear them why trouble?
I can’t see the Joe Miller. An empty hearse trotted
by, coming from the cemetery: looks relieved. Seadeath, mildest of all deaths
known to man. He wore a long unsleeved garment of recently flayed oxhide reaching to
the knees in a loose kilt and this was bound about his middle by a
girdle of plaited straw and rushes. His gorge rose. Password. A COLLISION ENSUES


The bell whirred again as he rang off. —No, says the citizen. How is she bearing it?
Keep her off that bottle of sherry. At
last she spotted a weeny weeshy one miles away. —There he is, says I, in his gloryhole, with his cruiskeen lawn and his
load of papers, working for the cause. How the head centre got
away, authentic version. )_ Burying his
grandmother. Isn’t he?

—Who? says Bloom. Want to feed well, sitting in there all the morning
in the gloom kicking his heels waiting for the next please. Mirthless high malicious laughter. A bent hag crossed from Cassidy’s,
clutching a naggin bottle by the neck. Of course gambling eminently lent itself to that sort of thing
though as the event turned out the poor fool hadn’t much reason to
congratulate himself on his pick, the forlorn hope. He had horns galore, a
coat of cloth of gold and a sweet smoky breath coming out of his
nostrils so that the women of our island, leaving doughballs and
rollingpins, followed after him hanging his bulliness in daisychains. at Ascot (Greenwich time), the message being received
and available for betting purposes in Dublin at 2. Green
twinkling stone. The eye sees all
flat. What kind of voice is it? Must be curious to hear after their own
strong basses. They all admired to see the foresaid riches in such
dearth of money as was herebefore. Young. A chain of children ’s hands
imprisons him. He gazed round the stooled and tabled eaters, tightening the wings of
his nose. Everyone dying to know what she’s writing. _ Funny the way those newspaper men veer
about when they get wind of a new opening. To be or not to be. F. Sounds better than last time I heard. Very well, thank you. ZOE: I feel it. Glue em well. Tide
comes here. The morn is breaking. The barrow turned into a side lane. )_ Curse it. Will I?

Mr Bloom with his stick gently vexed the thick sand at his foot. Pure jealousy of course it was nothing else
to draw attention on account of the gentleman opposite looking. Dislike that job. )_ Simon Dedalus’
son. Where off to? Something to eat? I too was just. Petals too tired to. )_

BLOOM: Don’t ask me! Our mutual faith. —Thank you, the sailor said. Gentle sweet air blew round the bared heads in a whisper. Happy. You ought to make it a
dialogue, don’t you know, like the Platonic dialogues Wilde wrote. _(Kitty Ricketts bends her head. His back trouserbutton snaps. Fine
voice that fellow had. Sayest thou so? Will they wrest from us, from me, the palm of beauty?

—And the sense of property, Stephen said. )_ We have met before. No sidesaddle or pillion for her,
not for Joe. Dogs’ home over there. After his good lunch in Earlsfort terrace. He doesn’t hear it. I know who is Tommy’s sweetheart. The carriage halted short. No such ass. Cause of half the trouble. Tare and ages, what
way would I be resting at all, he muttered thickly, and I tramping
Dublin this while back with my share of songs and himself after me the
like of a soulth or a bullawurrus? My hell, and Ireland’s, is in this
life. O, Milly Bloom, you are my darling. )_

THE WATERFALL:

     Poulaphouca Poulaphouca
     Poulaphouca Poulaphouca. ) So that gesture, not music not odour, would
be a universal language, the gift of tongues rendering visible not the
lay sense but the first entelechy, the structural rhythm. The foreman, without answering, scribbled press on a corner of the
sheet and made a sign to a typesetter. Of Meyerbeer that is. )_ The engineer I was with at the bazaar does have
lovely ones. Look at me. Or was that I? Or am I now I? Twentyeight I was. Whatever do you think of me?
Don’t give me away. Did they find their educational careers similar?

Substituting Stephen for Bloom Stoom would have passed successively
through a dame’s school and the high school. Coin rang. And at the same instant perhaps a priest round the corner is elevating
it. No, not tell all. The violet silk petticoats. Fell and
cut it twentytwo years ago. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution. In the following carriage were the honourable Mrs
Paget, Miss de Courcy and the honourable Gerald Ward A. A large
bucket. Angels much prostitutes like and holy
apostles big damn ruffians. Catch aholt. To be sure it was a legitimate object and beyond
yea or nay did a world of good, shelters such as the present one they
were in run on teetotal lines for vagrants at night, concerts, dramatic
evenings and useful lectures (admittance free) by qualified men for the
lower orders. O boys! O boys!

—And Xenophon looked upon Marathon, Mr Dedalus said, looking again on
the fireplace and to the window, and Marathon looked on the sea. There. Loud. In his buttonhole is an immense dahlia. Crossbuns. What about sanctimonious Cromwell and his ironsides that put the women
and children of Drogheda to the sword with the bible text _God is love_
pasted round the mouth of his cannon? The bible! Did you read that skit
in the _United Irishman_ today about that Zulu chief that’s visiting
England?

—What’s that? says Joe. Possess her once take
the starch out of her. Poor Paddy! I little thought a week ago when I saw him last
and he was in his usual health that I’d be driving after him like this. No connection with
Madam Legget Byrne’s or Levenston’s. Last time I saw him he had his heels on view. Scoffing up stewgravy with sopping sippets of bread. I was in China and
North America and South America. The young
surgeon, however, rose and begged the company to excuse his retreat as
the nurse had just then informed him that he was needed in the ward. Moist pith of
farls of bread, the froggreen wormwood, her matin incense, court the
air. And he got them out as quick as he could, Jack Power and Crofton or
whatever you call him and him in the middle of them letting on to be
all at sea and up with them on the bloody jaunting car. She raised her small gloved fist, yawned ever so
gently, tiptapping her small gloved fist on her opening mouth and
smiled tinily, sweetly. Like John o’Gaunt his
name is dear to him, as dear as the coat and crest he toadied for, on a
bend sable a spear or steeled argent, honorificabilitudinitatibus,
dearer than his glory of greatest shakescene in the country. —Ay, says I. Bluerobed, white
under, come to me. )_ All must go through it, Stephen. You are mine. Sparkling bronze azure eyed Blazure’s skyblue bow and eyes. The new air greeted him, harping in wild nerves, wind of wild air of
seeds of brightness. Do fish
ever get seasick?

Then you have a beautiful calm without a cloud, smooth sea, placid,
crew and cargo in smithereens, Davy Jones’ locker, moon looking down so
peaceful. _—Qui vous a mis dans cette fichue position?_

_—C’est le pigeon, Joseph. Someone walking over it. Mr Kernan halted and preened himself before the sloping mirror of Peter
Kennedy, hairdresser. A woman’s hand flung forth a coin over the area railings. Unusual
polysyllables of foreign origin she interpreted phonetically or by
false analogy or by both: metempsychosis (met him pike hoses), _alias_
(a mendacious person mentioned in sacred scripture). Cours la Reine. Our harbours that are empty will be full
again, Queenstown, Kinsale, Galway, Blacksod Bay, Ventry in the kingdom
of Kerry, Killybegs, the third largest harbour in the wide world with a
fleet of masts of the Galway Lynches and the Cavan O’Reillys and the
O’Kennedys of Dublin when the earl of Desmond could make a treaty with
the emperor Charles the Fifth himself. Potato I have. General amnesty, weekly carnival with masked
licence, bonuses for all, esperanto the universal language with
universal brotherhood. —Do you understand now? Can you work the second for yourself?

—Yes, sir. I forgot to tell him that one about the earl of Kildare
after he set fire to Cashel cathedral. Say prunes and prisms forty times every morning, cure for
fat lips. Such growling you never heard as they let off between them. Blowing out his
rare moustache Mr Deasy halted at the table. That buttermilk didn’t agree with me. Between Queen’s and Whitworth bridges lord
Dudley’s viceregal carriages passed and were unsaluted by Mr Dudley
White, B. BLOOM: _(Lifts a turtle head towards her lap. ) Passée. Hello, placard. CORNY KELLEHER: _(To the watch, with drawling eye. He lifted his voice above it
boldly:

_—But, ladies and gentlemen, had the youthful Moses listened to and
accepted that view of life, had he bowed his head and bowed his will
and bowed his spirit before that arrogant admonition he would never
have brought the chosen people out of their house of bondage, nor
followed the pillar of the cloud by day. )_ We fought for you in South Africa, Irish
missile troops. But the Greek!

KYRIE ELEISON!


A smile of light brightened his darkrimmed eyes, lengthened his long
lips. BELLO: _(Stands up. That’s not English. Kisses chirp amid the
rifts of fog. W. )_ Nekum!

BLOOM: _(Starts up, seizes her hand. Instance he’s playing now. Makes it more aristocratic than for example if he drank
what they are used to Guinness’s porter or some temperance beverage
Wheatley’s Dublin hop bitters or Cantrell and Cochrane’s ginger ale
(aromatic). You were always a favourite with
the ladies. Test: turns
blue litmus paper red. The clay fell softer. Same time doing it scraped her
slipper on the floor so they wouldn’t hear. I’m not joking, Kinch. Bad for their tummies. Come on you
winefizzling, ginsizzling, booseguzzling existences! Come on, you
dog-gone, bullnecked, beetlebrowed, hogjowled, peanutbrained,
weaseleyed fourflushers, false alarms and excess baggage! Come on, you
triple extract of infamy! Alexander J Christ Dowie, that’s my name,
that’s yanked to glory most half this planet from Frisco beach to
Vladivostok. THE FAN: _(Tapping. s. )_ Well, it was in the papers about Antichrist. I am
a man misunderstood. He tried his hardest to recollect for the
moment whether he had lost as well he might have or left because in
that contingency it was not a pleasant lookout, very much the reverse
in fact. E. The dreamy cloudy gull
     Waves o’er the waters dull. I
don’t want to see my country fall into the hands of German jews either. Time they were stopping up in the _City Arms_ pisser Burke told me
there was an old one there with a cracked loodheramaun of a nephew and
Bloom trying to get the soft side of her doing the mollycoddle playing
bézique to come in for a bit of the wampum in her will and not eating
meat of a Friday because the old one was always thumping her craw and
taking the lout out for a walk. —You must have seen a fair share of the world, the keeper remarked,
leaning on the counter. Milly’s tubbing night. Long, short and long. C. Corny Kelleher locked his largefooted boots and gazed, his hat
downtilted, chewing his blade of hay. He saw
not gold. I halt. —Murder you! he laughed. Pardoned a classical allusion. )_ Hu hu hu hu
hu!

_(Stephen and Bloom gaze in the mirror. Seeing her home
after practice. Very sad thing. And will again, says he, when
the first Irish battleship is seen breasting the waves with our own
flag to the fore, none of your Henry Tudor’s harps, no, the oldest flag
afloat, the flag of the province of Desmond and Thomond, three crowns
on a blue field, the three sons of Milesius. Ham and eggs, no. And better. Cheeseparing nose. Whereas no photo could because it simply wasn’t art in a
word. And of course
Bloom had to have his say too about if a fellow had a rower’s heart
violent exercise was bad. I feel so sad. The carriage rattled swiftly along Blessington street. And he did feel a kind of need there and then to
follow suit like a kind of inward voice and satisfy a possible need by
moving a motion. Drop in on Keyes. Told him if he didn’t patch up the pot, Jesus,
he’d kick the shite out of him. _(He closes his eyes an
instant. What lighter recreations?

Outdoor: garden and fieldwork, cycling on level macadamised causeways,
ascents of moderately high hills, natation in secluded fresh water and
unmolested river boating in secure wherry or light curricle with kedge
anchor on reaches free from weirs and rapids (period of estivation),
vespertinal perambulation or equestrian circumprocession with
inspection of sterile landscape and contrastingly agreeable cottagers’
fires of smoking peat turves (period of hibernation). FLORRY-TERESA: It was in consequence of a portwine beverage on top of
Hennessy’s three star. Particularly nice old party for a cup of tea. )_ I thought so. —And _Madame_, Mr Power said smiling. On Newcomen bridge the very reverend John Conmee S. )_ University of life. BELLA: _(Looks at the money, then at Stephen, then at Zoe, Florry and
Kitty. Down the edge of his _Freeman_ baton ranged Bloom’s, your other eye,
scanning for where did I see that. The lodge of Diamond in Armagh the
splendid behung with corpses of papishes. In the intense instant of
imagination, when the mind, Shelley says, is a fading coal, that which
I was is that which I am and that which in possibility I may come to
be. You find my words dark. SHINDY IN WELLKNOWN RESTAURANT


—Good day, sir, Stephen answered blushing. CISSY CAFFREY: More luck to me. )_

BELLA: My word! I’m all of a mucksweat. Quick. I call it _A Pisgah Sight of Palestine_ or _The
Parable of The Plums. Molly looks out
of plumb. S. Making his
day’s stations, the dingy printingcase, his three taverns, the
Montmartre lair he sleeps short night in, rue de la Goutte-d’Or,
damascened with flyblown faces of the gone. Dr Bob Kenny is
attending her. Two carfuls of tourists passed slowly, their women sitting fore,
gripping the handrests. Then wheels were heard from in front, turning: then nearer:
then horses’ hoofs. His brain yielded. )_

FATHER DOLAN: Any boy want flogging? Broke his glasses? Lazy idle
little schemer. And not few and of these was young
Lynch were in doubt that the world was now right evil governed as it
was never other howbeit the mean people believed it otherwise but the
law nor his judges did provide no remedy. Chorusgirl’s romance. I couldn’t do. Iubilantium te virginum. I am a struggler now at the
end of my days. Round to Menton’s
office. Stephen turned his gaze from the sea and to the plump face with its
smokeblue mobile eyes. Smutty Moll for a mattress jig. To Daniel Magrane and Francis Wade in 1882 during a juvenile
friendship (terminated by the premature emigration of the former) he
had advocated during nocturnal perambulations the political theory of
colonial (e. Against John Long’s a drowsing loafer lounged in heavy
thought, gnawing a crusted knuckle. The harping chords of prelude closed. Wallace Bros: the
bottleworks: Dodder bridge. )_

MYLES CRAWFORD: _(His cock’s wattles wagging. —Mm, Mr Bloom said. You have that something within, the higher self. 27 November 1893, to the birth on 29
December 1893 of second (and only male) issue, deceased 9 January 1894,
aged 11 days, there remained a period of 10 years, 5 months and 18 days
during which carnal intercourse had been incomplete, without
ejaculation of semen within the natural female organ. I need not mention names. Fifteen she told me. J. His lovely shirt was shining beneath his what? of jet. I’m as staunch a Britisher as you are, sir. How are the mighty fallen! Collector of bad and doubtful
debts. Over after over. —Just another spasm, Ned Lambert said. God wants blood victim. Like women they like _rencontres. She answered, slighting:

—Ask no questions and you’ll hear no lies. When she had gone he said, laughing:

—We call it D. I smoked his baccy. Maggy, pouring yellow soup in Katey’s bowl, exclaimed:

—Boody! For shame!

A skiff, a crumpled throwaway, Elijah is coming, rode lightly down the
Liffey, under Loopline bridge, shooting the rapids where water chafed
around the bridgepiers, sailing eastward past hulls and anchorchains,
between the Customhouse old dock and George’s quay. Lady in the case. Brings on white
fluxions. —Half day, sir. He says it’s very clever. puts in a word, doing the toff about one story was good till
you heard another and blinking facts and the Nelson policy, putting
your blind eye to the telescope and drawing up a bill of attainder to
impeach a nation, and Bloom trying to back him up moderation and
botheration and their colonies and their civilisation. After supper
walk a mile. Why are their tongues so
rough? To lap better, all porous holes. Ned Lambert sidled down from the table. _Mais nom de nom,_ that is another pair of trousers. Glendalough, the lovely
lakes of Killarney, the ruins of Clonmacnois, Cong Abbey, Glen Inagh
and the Twelve Pins, Ireland’s Eye, the Green Hills of Tallaght, Croagh
Patrick, the brewery of Messrs Arthur Guinness, Son and Company
(Limited), Lough Neagh’s banks, the vale of Ovoca, Isolde’s tower, the
Mapas obelisk, Sir Patrick Dun’s hospital, Cape Clear, the glen of
Aherlow, Lynch’s castle, the Scotch house, Rathdown Union Workhouse at
Loughlinstown, Tullamore jail, Castleconnel rapids,
Kilballymacshonakill, the cross at Monasterboice, Jury’s Hotel, S. Rebound of garter. Scrum in. That bloody old fool! Ten thousand pounds. She would marry another. Sunk though he be beneath
the watery floor. Hundred
pounds. Father, Son and Holy Ghost and Jakes M’Carthy. For through that tube he saw
that he was in the land of Phenomenon where he must for a certain one
day die as he was like the rest too a passing show. In. Venus Pandemos. Their life, thought, speech are lent them by males. Appetite like an
albatross. With my tooraloom, tooraloom, tooraloom, tooraloom. Babes and sucklings are held up. One of those fellows got his hand nailed to the
table by a dagger. And when he had heard his voice say it he added:

—You don’t want anything for breakfast?

A sleepy soft grunt answered:

—Mn. Of Paul de Kock. Anything but that. Tap. They feel all that. The night Si sang. I hear he is
keeping very select company. Was that not Mrs M’Guinness?

Mrs M’Guinness, stately, silverhaired, bowed to Father Conmee from the
farther footpath along which she sailed. _(He ceases suddenly and holds up a
forefinger. Has the laugh at him now. It’s for an invalid. Father Conmee perceived her perfume in the car. I must go now, says
he to John Wyse. And, faith, he
filled up. Scowl or smile. Any civilisation they have they stole from us. Look at what I’m standing drinks to! Cold
water and gingerpop! Two fellows that would suck whisky off a sore leg. Yes, her lips said more loudly, Mr Dollard. I gall his kibe. , but the truth of a libel is no defence to an
indictment for publishing it in the eyes of the law. Curse seems to dog it. Quotations every day in the year. )_

THE CITIZEN: Thank heaven!

BLOOM: _(In a seamless garment marked I. What about that, Simon? he asked over the fringe of his
newspaper. Old Mr Verschoyle with
the ear trumpet loves old Mrs Verschoyle with the turnedin eye. THE NAVVY: _(Staggering past. Daresay Corny Kelleher bagged the job for O’Neill’s. THE VOICE OF VIRAG: _(A birdchief, bluestreaked and feathered in war
panoply with his assegai, striding through a crackling canebrake over
beechmast and acorns. Face like dip. Yes: they were from Belvedere. The voice of Lionel returned, weaker but unwearied. _

She waved, unhearing Cowley, her veil, to one departing, dear one, to
wind, love, speeding sail, return. Had this latter or any cognate phenomenon declared itself in any member
of his family?

Twice, in Holles street and in Ontario terrace, his daughter Millicent
(Milly) at the ages of 6 and 8 years had uttered in sleep an
exclamation of terror and had replied to the interrogations of two
figures in night attire with a vacant mute expression. That’s where I hails from. Two old women fresh from their whiff of the briny trudged through
Irishtown along London bridge road, one with a sanded tired umbrella,
one with a midwife’s bag in which eleven cockles rolled. A cloud began to cover the sun slowly, wholly, shadowing the bay in
deeper green. So of course everyone had the laugh at Bloom and says he, trying to
muck out of it:

—Or also living in different places. )_

BLOOM: Coincidence too. )_ Well then, permit me to draw your attention to item
number three. Abbas father,
furious dean, what offence laid fire to their brains? Paff! _Descende,
calve, ut ne nimium decalveris_. You
know how. BLOOM: _(Crosslacing. Ah,
poor dogsbody! Here lies poor dogsbody’s body. At Ponsonby’s corner a jaded white
flagon H. —That’s a fine old custom, he said. )_ The bird that can sing and won’t sing. _(She hauls up a reef of her slip, revealing her bare thigh,
and unrolls the potato from the top of her stocking. I question with you there, says he. I regard him as the whitest man I
know. C. —I beg yours, he said. Singing. Evening like
this, but clear, no clouds. J. Lash under the belly with a
knotted thong. What was lost is given back to him: his daughter’s
child. And you think you’re listening to the etherial. I met Bantam Lyons going to back
that horse only I put him off it and he told me Bloom gave him the tip. Don’t be all
night before the polis in plain clothes sees us. Letters on his back: I. His farewell concerts. The exhibition, which is the result of
years of training by kindness and a carefully thoughtout dietary
system, comprises, among other achievements, the recitation of verse. Reclaim the whole place. Yes, it was her he was looking at, and there was meaning
in his look. PRIVATE CARR: _(Loosening his belt, shouts. Eyes closed he totters. Martin Cunningham could work a pass for the Gaiety. _ There was no message evidently, as he took particular notice. He peered sideways up and gave a long slow whistle of call, then paused
awhile in rapt attention, his even white teeth glistening here and
there with gold points. Tell
him silly Milly sends my best respects. Yes, it is. A bogoak frame over his
bald head: Wilde’s _Requiescat_. —Strange but true, Martin Cunningham added. Want to keep her mind off it to conceive at
all. Hesouls,
shesouls, shoals of souls. —We want to hear more, John Eglinton decided with Mr Best’s approval. Ah! Ow! Don’t be talking! I was blue mouldy for the want of that pint. Hoping you’re well and
not in hell. His pageants, the histories, sail fullbellied on a tide of Mafeking
enthusiasm. Dignam’s
potted meat. Going to crop up all day, I foresee. When for Irelandear. Is he dead?

—Dead! Martin Cunningham cried. Then
squander a sovereign in dribs and drabs. Bob Doran, toppling from a high barstool, sways over the
munching spaniel. Wherever they gather they eat up the
nation’s vital strength. A cored apple, filled with brown sugar,
roasting for her at the hob on a dark autumn evening. Seventyseven west sixtyninth
street. —Quite so, Martin Cunningham said. —Ha. He ambles near with
disgruntled hindquarters. Hard as nails at a bargain, old Tweedy. BELLA: Show. Lighthearted deceiver and fickle
like all his sex he would never understand what he had meant to her and
for an instant there was in the blue eyes a quick stinging of tears. C. F. It would have served her just right if she had tripped up
over something accidentally on purpose with her high crooked French
heels on her to make her look tall and got a fine tumble. Rip van Winkle we played. The quaker librarian springhalted near. Mr Bloom set his thigh down. Meseems it dureth overlong. And baby prattled after her:

—A jink a jink a jawbo. _Eureka!_

Suddenly happied he jumped up and reached in a stride John Eglinton’s
desk. On Ormond quay Mr Simon Dedalus, steering his way from the greenhouse
for the subsheriff’s office, stood still in midstreet and brought his
hat low. Professor Goodwin, beating vague arms shrivels,
sinks, his live cape falling about the stool. Thrash the mongrel within
an inch of his life. Published by authority in
the year one thousand and. MARTHA: _(Sobbing behind her veil. ZOE: _(Quickly. —Yes, sir?

—Malt for Richie and Stephen, tell mother. That makes three and a penny. Come as a surprise, Leixlip, Clonsilla. I say! Not yet awhile. Come. He’s from beyant Boyne water. A thing out in the water. P. Ah, the names. A woman and a man. MRS BREEN: Mr Bloom! You down here in the haunts of sin! I caught you
nicely! Scamp!

BLOOM: _(Hurriedly. She
saw him into and out of the world. _—In paradisum. —Nao, Tommy said on the verge of tears. Never see him again. Why this
infliction? Would birds come then and peck like the boy with the basket
of fruit but he said no because they ought to have been afraid of the
boy. Hoardings: Eugene
Stratton, Mrs Bandmann Palmer. A man of genius makes no mistakes. Later on please. —Twopence, sir, the shopgirl dared to say. What’s that like? _(Gaudy dollwomen loll in
the lighted doorways, in window embrasures, smoking birdseye
cigarettes. Has little mousey any tickles tonight?

_(His skin, alert, feels her fingertips approach. STEPHEN: _(To Private Compton. To avoid a meeting he drew
nearer to the pillars of the railway bridge. ZOE: _(Tragically. There’s a big idea behind it, kind of kingdom of God is within you
feel. Young shouts of moneyed voices in Clive Kempthorpe’s rooms. Hell of a racket they make. His project meanwhile was very favourably
entertained by his auditors and won hearty eulogies from all though Mr
Dixon of Mary’s excepted to it, asking with a finicking air did he
purpose also to carry coals to Newcastle. —Come on then, Myles Crawford said. Give a
bleeding whore a chance. S. _Fun on
the Bristol_. Bit rusty. —Those who are married, Mr Best, douce herald, said, all save one,
shall live. Scep. The odour of the sicksweet weed floats towards him in slow
round ovalling wreaths. Father is a wellknown highly
respected citizen. _Orate, fratres,
pro memetipso_. Aimless he chose with agitated aim, bald Pat attending, a table
near the door. That was a pen. Illstarred
heresiarch! In a Greek watercloset he breathed his last: _euthanasia_. He gave them then a much admirable hymen minim by those
delicate poets Master John Fletcher and Master Francis Beaumont that is
in their _Maid’s Tragedy_ that was writ for a like twining of lovers:
_To bed, to bed_ was the burden of it to be played with accompanable
concent upon the virginals. Extraordinary the interest they take in a corpse. )

BLOOM: Are you sure about that _Voglio_? I mean the pronunciati. —Ay, says Joe. Penelope Rich. Stare the sun for example
like the eagle then look at a shoe see a blotch blob yellowish. All right, sir. Nicholas, O. Give hands,
traverse, bow to partner: so: imps of fancy of the Moors. —He has nothing to sit down on, sir. Dreadful. Healy, Mr Justice
Fitzgibbon, John Howard Parnell, the reverend Tinned Salmon, Professor
Joly, Mrs Breen, Denis Breen, Theodore Purefoy, Mina Purefoy, the
Westland Row postmistress, C. Or their skirt behind, placket unhooked. I have sinned: or no: I have
suffered, it is. —A few wellchosen words, Lenehan prefaced. SPOT THE WINNER


Lenehan came out of the inner office with _Sport_’s tissues. Gaze. Money worry. GERTY: _(To Bloom. I’ll be there. Why do you call me naught?
You naughty too? O, Mairy lost the string of her. A night watchman. Peep she cried behind the hood of the pushcar and Edy asked where was
Cissy gone and then Cissy popped up her head and cried ah! and, my
word, didn’t the little chap enjoy that! And then she told him to say
papa. Thy will be done. Salt green death. Four now. And sir Leopold sat with them for he bore fast
friendship to sir Simon and to this his son young Stephen and for that
his languor becalmed him there after longest wanderings insomuch as
they feasted him for that time in the honourablest manner. —There was a long spread out at Glencree reformatory, Lenehan said
eagerly. They followed the winding path down to the creek. _(He belches. Gorman, O. Cranly, I his mute orderly, following battles from afar. Dogs at each other behind. The blinds of
the avenue passed and number nine with its craped knocker, door ajar. )_ I love the danger. Might be false name however
like my name and the address Dolphin’s barn a blind. Tonight deftly amid wild
drink and talk, to pierce the polished mail of his mind. A POLISHED PERIOD


J. _(He taps
his parchmentroll energetically. 3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work. —That’s right, the old tarpaulin corroborated. )_ Christ Almighty it’s too tickling, this! You were a
nicelooking Miriam when you clipped off your backgate hairs and lay
swooning in the thing across the bed as Mrs Dandrade about to be
violated by lieutenant Smythe-Smythe, Mr Philip Augustus Blockwell M. )_ Hoy! Nebrakada! Cat o’ nine
lives! Fair play, madam. Venus has
twisted her lips in prayer. Father Conmee, reading his office, watched a flock of muttoning clouds
over Rathcoffey. Haines spoke to her again a longer speech, confidently. Ten shillings. Tap. E. Smell almost cure you like the dentist’s doorbell. Bomboost, Count Athanatos
Karamelopulos, Ali Baba Backsheesh Rahat Lokum Effendi, Señor Hidalgo
Caballero Don Pecadillo y Palabras y Paternoster de la Malora de la
Malaria, Hokopoko Harakiri, Hi Hung Chang, Olaf Kobberkeddelsen,
Mynheer Trik van Trumps, Pan Poleaxe Paddyrisky, Goosepond Prhklstr
Kratchinabritchisitch, Borus Hupinkoff, Herr Hurhausdirektorpresident
Hans Chuechli-Steuerli,
Nationalgymnasiummuseumsanatoriumandsuspensoriumsordinaryprivatdocentge
neralhistoryspecialprofessordoctor Kriegfried Ueberallgemein. Hungry man is an angry man. He places a hand in his waistcoat, posing
calmly. The mocker is never taken seriously when he is most serious. —Mr Lyster, an attendant said from the door ajar. —The milk, sir!

—Come in, ma’am, Mulligan said. His friends
had all deserted him. )_ I won’t tell you what’s not good for you. Figures wander, lurk, peer from warrens. She’s passing now. Know the kind that is. She stood
outside the shop in sunlight and sauntered lazily to the right. Terrible comedown, poor wretch! Kicked about like snuff at a wake. He told her that time
when she told him about that in confession, crimsoning up to the roots
of her hair for fear he could see, not to be troubled because that was
only the voice of nature and we were all subject to nature’s laws, he
said, in this life and that that was no sin because that came from the
nature of woman instituted by God, he said, and that Our Blessed Lady
herself said to the archangel Gabriel be it done unto me according to
Thy Word. A corpse
rising saltwhite from the undertow, bobbing a pace a pace a porpoise
landward. Wait. Still there’s destiny in it, falling in love. Whisper. —And white wax also, he said. He turned to Stephen and asked blandly:

—Is this the day for your monthly wash, Kinch?

Then he said to Haines:

—The unclean bard makes a point of washing once a month. ? My casting vote is: Mooney’s!

He led the way, admonishing:

—We will sternly refuse to partake of strong waters, will we not? Yes,
we will not. Look clock. Let him. I’d rather have you without a farthing
     Than Katey Keogh with her ass and garden. —O, Haines said, you have heard it before?

—Three times a day, after meals, Stephen said drily. What was he? Kildare street club toff. Doesn’t
half know I’m. By the sad sea waves. And America they say is the land of the free. S. Morphy, F. Those who have passed on, who have gone
before, are happy too as they gaze down and smile upon the touching
scene. )_

     I gave it to Nelly
     To stick in her belly,
     The leg of the duck,
     The leg of the duck. Out. Wild
geese. —Yes, Mr Bloom said, and another thing I often thought, is to have
municipal funeral trams like they have in Milan, you know. He twirls in reversed
directions a clouded cane, then wedges it tight in his oxter. A snack for supper. —It beats me, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen, medically I am speaking,
how a wretched creature like that from the Lock hospital reeking with
disease can be barefaced enough to solicit or how any man in his sober
senses, if he values his health in the least. B. —Hear, hear to that, says John Wyse. More put out about a hole in her stocking. Send us bright one, light one, Horhorn, quickening and wombfruit. Lot of time taken up telling
your aches and pains. A hand glides over
his left thigh. He was simply and solely, as it subsequently
transpired for reasons best known to himself, which put quite an
altogether different complexion on the proceedings, after the moment
before’s observations about boyhood days and the turf, recollecting two
or three private transactions of his own which the other two were as
mutually innocent of as the babe unborn. He takes great
pride, quite legitimate, out of you. _Isis Unveiled. Wellmeaning old man. He plumped him Dollard on the stool. Me?

Bloom askance over liverless saw. Oldfashioned way he used to bow Molly off the platform. —It’s very close, the constable said. Remember that time?

Professor MacHugh nodded. )_ The mockery of it! Kinch
dogsbody killed her bitchbody. He crossed Westmoreland street when apostrophe S had plodded by. O’Molloy said quietly,
turning a horseshoe paperweight. _

Good man, good man. Maybe now. BELLO: You will make the beds, get my tub ready, empty the pisspots in
the different rooms, including old Mrs Keogh’s the cook’s, a sandy one. Extremes meet. He
swears (His Highness not His Lordship) by saint Patrick. What followed this operation?

The truncated conical crater summit of the diminutive volcano emitted a
vertical and serpentine fume redolent of aromatic oriental incense. Great song of Julia Morkan’s. Letter. Compile the budget for 16 June 1904. Unclean job. Betting. Bloom
wound a skein round four forkfingers, stretched it, relaxed, and wound
it round his troubled double, fourfold, in octave, gyved them fast. Farewell. Certainly, I
sort of believe strong in you, Mr President. The void
awaits surely all them that weave the wind: a menace, a disarming and a
worsting from those embattled angels of the church, Michael’s host, who
defend her ever in the hour of conflict with their lances and their
shields. Ise de
cutest colour coon down our side. )
Il vient! C’est moi! L’homme qui rit! L’homme primigène! (He whirls
round and round with dervish howls. )_

ADONAI: Dooooooooooog!

THE VOICE OF ALL THE BLESSED: Alleluia, for the Lord God Omnipotent
reigneth!

_(From on high the voice of Adonai calls. The oldest people. He
slunk back in a curve. Thy cow’s dug was tough, what? Ay, but her
milk is hot and sweet and fattening. Ah, I’m hungry. The entire audience waited, anticipating an additional detonation,
there being still a further egg. Respectable girl meet after mass. Let him take that in first. For Ulster will fight
     And Ulster will be right. )_ Poldy!

BLOOM: Yes, ma’am?

MARION: _Ti trema un poco il cuore?_

_(In disdain she saunters away, plump as a pampered pouter pigeon,
humming the duet from_ Don Giovanni. —He’s not too bad, Nosey Flynn said, snuffling it up. The postmistress handed him back through the grill his card with a
letter. Fast and furious it was. So
lonely. Comes to a big thing in a
year. —I’ll risk it, he said. _The
Messiah_ was first given for that. Didn’t you see him look at his watch?
Ah, you weren’t there. That’s witty, I think. Not much however. Here’s the cops! _(Two raincaped watch, tall, stand in the group. By his
elbow a delicate Siamese conned a handbook of strategy. Still, true to life also. More power, Pat. Haines from the corner where he was knotting easily a scarf about the
loose collar of his tennis shirt spoke:

—I intend to make a collection of your sayings if you will let me. Undermines the constitution. Blazes Boylan’s smart tan shoes creaked on the barfloor, said before. Kinch here. —For a few days tell him, Father Cowley said anxiously. And deepmoved all, Simon trumping compassion from foghorn nose, all
laughing they brought him forth, Ben Dollard, in right good cheer. What did you say that for?

—Well? Stephen said. At all events he wound up
by concluding, eschewing for the nonce hidebound precedent, a cup of
Epps’s cocoa and a shakedown for the night plus the use of a rug or two
and overcoat doubled into a pillow at least he would be in safe hands
and as warm as a toast on a trivet he failed to perceive any very vast
amount of harm in that always with the proviso no rumpus of any sort
was kicked up. Wait. —No, sir. That was in his
eyes. S. I think I see some old comrades in
arms up there among you. And the children, twins they must be,
waiting for something to happen. He’s dead nuts on that. A coughball of laughter leaped from his throat dragging after it a
rattling chain of phlegm. —Numbers eleven to fifteen, Sargent answered. Come on, Ned. At
their joggerfry. Lid Ker Cow De and Doll. Reverently look at her as she reclines there with the
motherlight in her eyes, that longing hunger for baby fingers (a pretty
sight it is to see), in the first bloom of her new motherhood,
breathing a silent prayer of thanksgiving to One above, the Universal
Husband. She died, for literature at least, before she was born. Schedule time. He’s on point duty up and down there for the last ten
minutes. Outside _la Maison Claire_ Blazes Boylan waylaid Jack Mooney’s
brother-in-law, humpy, tight, making for the liberties. First I heard of it. Aleph, alpha: nought, nought, one. Decent soul. )_ Powerful being. Cityful passing away, other cityful coming, passing away too: other
coming on, passing on. Yes, it is true. Keeps them
out of harm’s way. Buck Mulligan bent across the table gravely. And why not? An
awful lot of makebelieve went on about that sort of thing involving a
lifelong slur with the usual splash page of gutterpress about the same
old matrimonial tangle alleging misconduct with professional golfer or
the newest stage favourite instead of being honest and aboveboard about
the whole business. Want a woman who can deliver the goods. So Bloom slopes in with his cod’s eye on the dog and he asks Terry was
Martin Cunningham there. Piles of parchment. That’s work too. The conductor pulled the
bellstrap to stay the car for her. Clove her breath was always in theatre when she bent to ask a question. Did you not know that?

So off they started about Irish sports and shoneen games the like of
lawn tennis and about hurley and putting the stone and racy of the soil
and building up a nation once again and all to that. Well now, look
at that. —Up the Boers!

—Three cheers for De Wet!

—We’ll hang Joe Chamberlain on a sourapple tree. What suggested scene was then constructed by Stephen?

Solitary hotel in mountain pass. Mayhap it was this, the love that might have been, that
lent to her softlyfeatured face at whiles a look, tense with suppressed
meaning, that imparted a strange yearning tendency to the beautiful
eyes, a charm few could resist. —How’s the body?

—Fine. —O, no, Mr Bloom said. That might be Lizzie Twigg with him. Nice wine it is. Sss. Opening of his waistcoat. He walks. He
moved his head uncertainly. His mouth continued to twitch unspeaking in nervous curls of disdain. He lifted his
hands and said: _All we can say is that life ran very high in those
days. At their feet its red speck died: and
mouldy air closed round them. Poor boy! Was
he there when the father? Both unconscious. In colour whereof they waxed
hot upon that head what with argument and what for their drinking but
the franklin Lenehan was prompt each when to pour them ale so that at
the least way mirth might not lack. Look to the west. Write
a message for her. Why similarly, why differently?

Similarly, because actuated by a secret purpose the quest of a new male
(Mullingar student) or of a healing herb (valerian). No birds. Hothouse in Botanic gardens. )_

THE GRAMOPHONE:

     Jerusalem!
     Open your gates and sing
     Hosanna. Cauls mouldy tripes windpipes faked
and minced up. Liliata rutilantium. Our greatest living phonetic expert (wild horses shall not drag it from
us!) has left no stone unturned in his efforts to delucidate and
compare the verse recited and has found it bears a _striking_
resemblance (the italics are ours) to the ranns of ancient Celtic
bards. That’s the music of the future. We should not now combine
a Norse saga with an excerpt from a novel by George Meredith. )_ Giddy. Her songs. —Blazes Boylan, Mr Power said. His moral nature is simple and lovable. —Did I say that? he asked. Better get this job over quick. Always off to a fellow when they
are. And did you chachachachacha? And why did you? Look
down at her ring to find an excuse. —Are the conscript fathers pursuing their peaceful deliberations? he
said with rich acrid utterance to the assistant town clerk. What additional attractions might the grounds contain?

As addenda, a tennis and fives court, a shrubbery, a glass summerhouse
with tropical palms, equipped in the best botanical manner, a rockery
with waterspray, a beehive arranged on humane principles, oval
flowerbeds in rectangular grassplots set with eccentric ellipses of
scarlet and chrome tulips, blue scillas, crocuses, polyanthus, sweet
William, sweet pea, lily of the valley (bulbs obtainable from sir James
W. Stay in. That is Kevin Egan’s movement I made, nodding for his nap,
sabbath sleep. _Dominus!_ Lord! Where
is the spirituality? Lord Jesus? Lord Salisbury? A sofa in a westend
club. Hidden under
wild ferns on Howth below us bay sleeping: sky. His mood?

He had not risked, he did not expect, he had not been disappointed, he
was satisfied. CISSY CAFFREY: _(Shrill. For who is there who anything of some
significance has apprehended but is conscious that that exterior
splendour may be the surface of a downwardtending lutulent reality or
on the contrary anyone so is there unilluminated as not to perceive
that as no nature’s boon can contend against the bounty of increase so
it behoves every most just citizen to become the exhortator and
admonisher of his semblables and to tremble lest what had in the past
been by the nation excellently commenced might be in the future not
with similar excellence accomplished if an inverecund habit shall have
gradually traduced the honourable by ancestors transmitted customs to
that thither of profundity that that one was audacious excessively who
would have the hardihood to rise affirming that no more odious offence
can for anyone be than to oblivious neglect to consign that evangel
simultaneously command and promise which on all mortals with prophecy
of abundance or with diminution’s menace that exalted of reiteratedly
procreating function ever irrevocably enjoined?

It is not why therefore we shall wonder if, as the best historians
relate, among the Celts, who nothing that was not in its nature
admirable admired, the art of medicine shall have been highly honoured. Bears in the
zoo. I know and I am some vibrator. )_ What’s his name?

BLOOM: _(Peering over the crowd. Never find out. The elder man, though not by any manner of means an old maid or a
prude, said it was nothing short of a crying scandal that ought to be
put a stop to _instanter_ to say that women of that stamp (quite apart
from any oldmaidish squeamishness on the subject), a necessary evil,
were not licensed and medically inspected by the proper authorities, a
thing, he could truthfully state, he, as a _paterfamilias_, was a
stalwart advocate of from the very first start. Selfish those t. Lay you two to one Jenatzy licks him ruddy well
hollow. Yes, indeed. See! it
displodes for thee in abundance. Say the following talisman three times with hands folded:

—_Se el yilo nebrakada femininum! Amor me solo! Sanktus! Amen. Miss Dunne clicked on the keyboard:

—16 June 1904. _(He touches the keys again. Stylish coat, beyond a doubt. Mrs Cooper Oakley once glimpsed our very
illustrious sister H. —Onehandled adulterer! the professor cried. Mat Dillon’s long ago. The royal reader. _

A flushed young man came from a gap of a hedge and after him came a
young woman with wild nodding daisies in her hand. Lal the ral the raddy. She walked with a certain quiet dignity characteristic
of her but with care and very slowly because—because Gerty MacDowell
was. She won in a thunderstorm,
Rothschild’s filly, with wadding in her ears. That the coffin was filled
with stones. The Greek mouth
that has never been twisted in prayer. It’s
rather interesting because professor Pokorny of Vienna makes an
interesting point out of that. Buck Mulligan laid it across his heaped
clothes. —You, Jack? Crofton? Three half ones, Terry. Pardon! Not at all. —I met M’Coy this morning, Mr Bloom said. Knife like that. He was on the _Freeman_ once. John of God and S. New
blood. I say so. Reincarnation: that’s the word. Then, his head
wagging, he came near, drew a folded telegram from his pocket. _(The horse neighs. Haines is
apologising for waking us last night. Ravished over her I lay, full lips full open, kissed her
mouth. Who is this she was like? O yes! Mrs Miriam Dandrade that
sold me her old wraps and black underclothes in the Shelbourne hotel. _(He bends
sideways and squeezes his mount’s testicles roughly, shouting. Yet sometimes they repent too late. The deep white breast. Have rows all the same. Now I have to
answer that letter from my cousin. Never forgive you after. ? says Joe. —Go away! Isn’t that grand for her?

—Yes. Highly respectable
gondoliers! And skeweyed Walter sirring his father, no less! Sir. Wait till you hear
him, Simon, on Ben Dollard’s singing of _The Croppy Boy_. Great chorus that. A PAVIOR AND FLAGGER: That’s the famous Bloom now, the world’s greatest
reformer. One tabloid of cascara sagrada. Luncheon interval. Tell me who made the world. It’s the droll way he comes out with the
things. 217). Like lady, ladylike. Cashel Boyle O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell, murmuring,
glassyeyed, strode past the Kildare street club. _ Where’s what’s his name?

He looked about him round his loud unanswering machines. Goerz lenses six guineas. )_

A MILLIONAIRESS: _(Richly. Our two inimitable drolls did a roaring trade
with their broadsheets among lovers of the comedy element and nobody
who has a corner in his heart for real Irish fun without vulgarity will
grudge them their hardearned pennies. Wonder is he pimping after me?

Mr Bloom stood at the corner, his eyes wandering over the multicoloured
hoardings. Miss Kennedy sauntered sadly from bright light, twining a loose hair
behind an ear. Buck Mulligan stood
on a stone, in shirtsleeves, his unclipped tie rippling over his
shoulder. _La cloche!_ Thigh smack. Napkinring in his
eye. Lord, she must have
looked a sight that night Dedalus told me he was in there. —Two, he said, strapping and stowing his pocketbook away. )_ I just see a car there. What cerebration accompanied his frequentative act?

Concluding by inspection but erroneously that his silent companion was
engaged in mental composition he reflected on the pleasures derived
from literature of instruction rather than of amusement as he himself
had applied to the works of William Shakespeare more than once for the
solution of difficult problems in imaginary or real life. Come out of
them, Stephen. Mr Kernan glanced in farewell at his image. But Malachias’ tale began to freeze them with horror. Pinned together. )_ There’s a good girly
now. And past the sailors’ home. _ It had been a weary weary while both for patient
and doctor. )_ Iiiiiiiiiaaaaaaach!

BLOOM: Mixed races and mixed marriage. Lil chile velly solly. )_ O good God, take him!

BLOOM: _(Runs to Lynch. Decoy duck. I just want to phone about an ad. Agendath is a waste land, a home
of screechowls and the sandblind upupa. Timeball on the ballastoffice is down. Have you seen him lately?

He had. The name. Of course his infant majesty was most
obstreperous at such toilet formalities and he let everyone know it:

—Habaa baaaahabaaa baaaa. See
blank tee what domestic animal? Tee dash ar most courageous mariner. s. ordered the drinks. —Nao, Tommy said. A punch in his dinner. Yes, yes. Still seeking, he said:

—When Fitzgibbon’s speech had ended John F Taylor rose to reply. _The monster Maffei desisted and flung
his victim from him with an oath_. Katey,
sitting opposite Boody, said quietly, as her fingertip lifted to her
mouth random crumbs:

—A good job we have that much. Thought
is the thought of thought. )_

THE BAWD: _(Her wolfeyes shining. Wise men say. _

Whither away? Exploitable ground. The navvy, swaying, presses a forefinger against a wing of his
nose and ejects from the farther nostril a long liquid jet of snot. On
me alone. )_

BLOOM: Stitch in my side. _(A covey of gulls, storm petrels, rises hungrily from Liffey slime
with Banbury cakes in their beaks. Not saying a word. I remonstrated with him, Your lord, and he
remarked: keep it quiet. Of Ireland, the Dalcassians, of hopes,
conspiracies, of Arthur Griffith now, A E, pimander, good shepherd of
men. O yes, we’ll have all
topnobbers. He took it to heart, pined away. Was that then real? The only true thing in
life? His mother’s prostrate body the fiery Columbanus in holy zeal
bestrode. Like a child’s hand, his hand. _Visszontlátásra, kedvés barátom! Visszontlátásra!_ Gone but not
forgotten. The boots to them, them in the bar, them barmaids came. This isn’t a musical peepshow. Cranly’s eleven true Wicklowmen to free their sireland. She was in a
soft clinging white in a studied attitude and the gentleman was in
chocolate and he looked a thorough aristocrat. The twins clamoured again for it and Cissy told her to kick it
away and let them fight for it so Gerty drew back her foot but she
wished their stupid ball hadn’t come rolling down to her and she gave a
kick but she missed and Edy and Cissy laughed. An old friend of mine. Dog of my enemy. Barrels bumped in his head: dull porter slopped and churned inside. There’s music everywhere. An afterclang of Cowley’s chords closed, died on the air made richer. H. Doc. Two, four, six, eight, nine. O, you peerless mummer!
O, you priestified Kinchite!

Joyfully he thrust message and envelope into a pocket but keened in a
querulous brogue:

—It’s what I’m telling you, mister honey, it’s queer and sick we were,
Haines and myself, the time himself brought it in. O, Kinch, thou art in peril. —He had a good groatsworth of wit, Stephen said, and no truant memory. I’m the _Übermensch. Burke’s! outflings my lord Stephen, giving the cry, and a tag and
bobtail of all them after, cockerel, jackanapes, welsher, pilldoctor,
punctual Bloom at heels with a universal grabbing at headgear,
ashplants, bilbos, Panama hats and scabbards, Zermatt alpenstocks and
what not. Lang may your lum reek and your kailpot
boil! My tipple. Her ankles are linked by a slender fetterchain. I’ll make you dance Jack Latten for that. VIRAG: _(Arches his eyebrows. D. —You don’t grasp my point, says Bloom. Ancient free and accepted order. )_

THE MALE BRUTES: _(Exhaling sulphur of rut and dung and ramping in
their loosebox, faintly roaring, their drugged heads swaying to and
fro. Too much mystery business in it. Such a bad headache. )_ These flying Dutchmen or lying Dutchmen as
they recline in their upholstered poop, casting dice, what reck they?
Machines is their cry, their chimera, their panacea. Monthly or effect of the other. Then she stared at the large poster of Marie Kendall, charming
soubrette, and, listlessly lolling, scribbled on the jotter sixteens
and capital esses. One was a ship, another was a
house, another was a flower. Nodding. Let me. What swells him up that way? Molly gets swelled after
cabbage. )_

MAGINNI: The poetry of motion, art of calisthenics. It was a peaceful day. Characteristic of him. There’s nothing smutty in it. P. —Rather lowsized. Henry. He did
come a wallop, by George. X is Davy’s
publichouse, see?

CLEVER, VERY


—Clever, Lenehan said. Gawds teruth, Chawley. _

RUDOLPH: What you making down this place? Have you no soul? _(With
feeble vulture talons he feels the silent face of Bloom. Writing the gentleman
false letters. Drinkers, drinking,
laughed spluttering, their drink against their breath. I wish to Christ he did!

Mr Power sent a long laugh down his shaded nostrils. He said softly in the bare hall:

—I’m going round the corner. And
then he collapses all of a sudden, twisting around all the opposite, as
limp as a wet rag. —Charity to the neighbour, says Martin. G. Sir Lout’s toys. _Physical Strength and How to Obtain It_ by Eugen Sandow (red cloth). J. Pen. Lockhart’s _Life of Napoleon_ (cover wanting, marginal annotations,
minimising victories, aggrandising defeats of the protagonist). Offend me still. Slieve Bloom. Sulphate of copper poison SO4 or something in some dried peas
he remembered reading of in a cheap eatinghouse somewhere but he
couldn’t remember when it was or where. —They’re not European, says the citizen. —After three, he said. People in law
perhaps. )_
Also to me. Different feel perhaps. How do you do?

—Who? Mr Dedalus asked. That half tabbywhite tortoiseshell in the
_City Arms_ with the letter em on her forehead. Moya. Perhaps there is someone. A black crack of noise in the street here, alack, bawled back. Knew her eyes at once from the father. Decamping. _Leah_ tonight. Mawkish pulp her mouth had mumbled sweetsour of her spittle. My word he did!
His horse’s hoofs clattering after us down Abbey street. She swore to him as they mingled the salt streams of
their tears that she would ever cherish his memory, that she would
never forget her hero boy who went to his death with a song on his lips
as if he were but going to a hurling match in Clonturk park. Quick round. There all right. The devil and the deep sea. I’d go if I possibly
could. Come. H. )_ It is true. Blast you. O, for a fresh of breath air! I caught a
cold in the park. m. Mr Dedalus eyed with cold wandering scorn various points of Ben
Dollard’s figure. BLOOM: That is one pound six and eleven. )_ They had a proverb in the Carpathians in or about the year
five thousand five hundred and fifty of our era. Plates: infants cuddled in a ball in bloodred wombs like livers of
slaughtered cows. Before the huge high door of the Irish house of parliament a flock of
pigeons flew. Our prize titbit: _Matcham’s Masterstroke_. He wants to go straight. ). Taunted
them still, bending, suspending, with wilful eyes. The pall of
incense smoke screens and disperses. Poor Mrs
Purefoy. )_ Thanks, somewhat eminent sir. ’Twas murmur we did
for a gallus potion would rouse a friar, I’m thinking, and he limp with
leching. It’s the force of gravity of the
earth is the weight. Grinding poverty did have that
effect and he more than conjectured that, high educational abilities
though he possessed, he experienced no little difficulty in making both
ends meet. O, he’s carrying her round
the room doing it! Ride a cockhorse. What was that boy’s name
again? Dignam. Is she in love with the
first fellow all the time?

—Never read it. Thought that Belfast would fetch him. —Well, what’ll it be? Paddy Leonard asked. MRS BELLINGHAM: _(Shakes her muff and quizzing-glasses vindictively. At the Howth road stop Father Conmee alighted, was saluted by the
conductor and saluted in his turn. Bad as a row with Molly. )_

STAGGERING BOB: (_Large teardrops rolling from his prominent eyes,
snivels. Beerpull. It’s the whole pie with jam in. Uncertainly
he waited. With ratsteeth
bared he muttered:

—_Coactus volui. Boniface! Absinthe the lot. Whispering
around you. _Was Du verlachst wirst Du noch dienen. He encircled his gadding hair
with a coronal of vineleaves, smiling at Vincent. Why did he come? Courtesy or an inward light?

—Where there is a reconciliation, Stephen said, there must have been
first a sundering. That’s not for you to say, says I. Of lost
leaders, the betrayed, wild escapes. The right honourable Hedges
Eyre Chatterton. Down there Emmet was hanged, drawn and quartered. Bound thee forth, my booklet, quick
     To greet the callous public. Same thing with ads. Ba. _Artane orphans, joining hands, caper round him. Terence O’Ryan heard him and straightway brought him a crystal cup full
of the foamy ebon ale which the noble twin brothers Bungiveagh and
Bungardilaun brew ever in their divine alevats, cunning as the sons of
deathless Leda. Cancer did it, not I. Then he looked up and saw the eyes that said or
didn’t say the words the voice he heard said, if you work. Seeing that the ruse worked and the coast was clear they left the
shelter or shanty together and the _élite_ society of oilskin and
company whom nothing short of an earthquake would move out of their
_dolce far niente_. _(He chuckles. Out on the rampage all night. Kosher. Put beurla on it, littlejohn. That was one for him. Younger than I am. —Mark my words, Mr Dedalus, he said. By Larry O’Rourke’s, by Larry, bold Larry O’, Boylan swayed and Boylan
turned. After with Dedalus’ son. They fade, sad phantoms: all is gone. That’s well known. Bit addled now. Then said Dixon junior to Punch Costello wist he what ends. Time will come. A speck of eager fire from foxeyes thanked him. Folly am I writing? Husbands don’t. FIRST WATCH: O. Answer something. Molly. —Tell us if you’re worth your salt and be damned to you, Paddy Leonard
said. Ternoon. Desire to grig people. Midway, his last resistance yielding,
he allowed his bowels to ease themselves quietly as he read, reading
still patiently that slight constipation of yesterday quite gone. Eating your groatsworth of _mou en civet_, fleshpots
of Egypt, elbowed by belching cabmen. John Wyse Nolan fell back with Mr Power, while Martin Cunningham took
the elbow of a dapper little man in a shower of hail suit, who walked
uncertainly, with hasty steps past Micky Anderson’s watches. And kissed my hand when I gave her the extra two shillings. I remember looking in
Pill lane. —Go on! Do! _Sonnez!_

Bending, she nipped a peak of skirt above her knee. But it is so long since I. Urchins shout. —Threepence, please. Hard lines. Sweet Ann, I take it, was hot in the blood. )_

THE CALLS: Wait, my love, and I’ll be with you. In quintessential triviality
     For years in this fleshcase a shesoul dwelt. What bogeyman’s
trick is this?

BUCK MULLIGAN: _(Shakes his curling capbell. ?

BELLA: _(Loudly. Yet they say, who was it
told me, there is no carnal. The mystery was unveiled. It represents a partially nude señorita, frail and lovely (his wife, as
he solemnly assured me, taken by him from nature), practising illicit
intercourse with a muscular torero, evidently a blackguard. You are walking through it howsomever. BIDDY THE CLAP: He expresses himself with such marked refinement of
phraseology. At his armpit Bantam Lyons’ voice and hand said:

—Hello, Bloom. Whale with a harpoon hairpin, alligator tickle the small of
his back and he sees the joke, chalk a circle for a rooster, tiger my
eagle eye. Know what I mean?

His hands moulded ample curves of air. They give him a leg
up. Baraabum! On nags hogs bellhorses Gadarene swine Corny in coffin steel
shark stone onehandled Nelson two trickies Frauenzimmer plumstained
from pram falling bawling. Very like
her then. —I suppose so, Mr Dedalus said with a weak gasp. Noble art of
selfpretence. It is said of him that none could tell if he were
bitterer against others or against himself. _(He staggers forward, dragging them with him. Still if he works that paragraph. Rub off the microbes with your
handkerchief. His name was Virag, the
father’s name that poisoned himself. Children’s hands always round them. So anyhow when I got back they were at it dingdong, John Wyse saying it
was Bloom gave the ideas for Sinn Fein to Griffith to put in his paper
all kinds of jerrymandering, packed juries and swindling the taxes off
of the government and appointing consuls all over the world to walk
about selling Irish industries. Lynch and Kitty and Zoe stampede
from the room. La la la ree. Connery, proprietors), the National Library of Ireland, 10
Kildare street, the National Maternity Hospital, 29, 30 and 31 Holles
street, a public garden, the vicinity of a place of worship, a
conjunction of two or more public thoroughfares, the point of bisection
of a right line drawn between their residences (if both speakers were
resident in different places, fuck everyone who is reading this shit). Klook. _(He points to himself and the others. All are. Did he attribute this homonymity to information or coincidence or
intuition?

Coincidence. Pyatt! He
was all their daddies!

—The father of scare journalism, Lenehan confirmed, and the
brother-in-law of Chris Callinan. But
the learningknight would not hear say nay nor do her mandement ne have
him in aught contrarious to his list and he said how it was a
marvellous castle. But we. If you just follow the atten. Mirage. And full fair cheer and rich was
on the board that no wight could devise a fuller ne richer. Block tackle and a strangling pulley will bring your
lion to heel, no matter how fractious, even _Leo ferox_ there, the
Libyan maneater. You don’t
know yet what money is. On the other hand he might be only bluffing, a pardonable
weakness because meeting unmistakable mugs, Dublin residents, like
those jarvies waiting news from abroad would tempt any ancient mariner
who sailed the ocean seas to draw the long bow about the schooner
_Hesperus_ and etcetera. Been walking in
muck somewhere. It’s a patent absurdity on the face of it to hate
people because they live round the corner and speak another vernacular,
in the next house so to speak. Metaphysics in Mecklenburgh street!

STEPHEN: We have shrewridden Shakespeare and henpecked Socrates. Who lives there? Are laid the remains of Robert Emery. Good stroke. _

—Which they accordingly did do, Lenehan said. Tell me I
want to. Don’t be greedy. Thanks. Holding up her hand,
shaking it, to let the blood flow back when it was red. We
want no more strangers in our house. He was the eldest son of
inspector Corley of the G division, lately deceased, who had married a
certain Katherine Brophy, the daughter of a Louth farmer. A bloated carcass of a dog lay lolled on bladderwrack. For you,
please?

Mr Bloom pointed quickly. Does himself well. He might even have done for his man supposing it was his
own case he told, as people often did about others, namely, that he
killed him himself and had served his four or five goodlooking years in
durance vile to say nothing of the Antonio personage (no relation to
the dramatic personage of identical name who sprang from the pen of our
national poet) who expiated his crimes in the melodramatic manner above
described. )_ Nay, madam. D. Womb? Weary?

He rests. Pride of Calpe’s rocky mount, the ravenhaired daughter of Tweedy. )_ Are you not
my son Leopold, the grandson of Leopold? Are you not my dear son
Leopold who left the house of his father and left the god of his
fathers Abraham and Jacob?

BLOOM: _(With precaution. I have moved in the charmed circle of the
highest. Too many in the world. Gone at last. Did he? I hope you’ll be able to come tonight. Gerty’s lips parted swiftly to frame the word but
she fought back the sob that rose to her throat, so slim, so flawless,
so beautifully moulded it seemed one an artist might have dreamed of. Force, hatred, history, all that. —Bingbang, bangbang. Bald Pat, bothered waiter, waited for drink orders. And there rises a shining palace whose crystal glittering roof is seen
by mariners who traverse the extensive sea in barks built expressly for
that purpose, and thither come all herds and fatlings and firstfruits
of that land for O’Connell Fitzsimon takes toll of them, a chieftain
descended from chieftains. Looking for something lost in a past life. _(He begins to lilt simply. Pappin of Ballymun and Brother Aloysius Pacificus
and Brother Louis Bellicosus and the saints Rose of Lima and of Viterbo
and S. Five, seven, nine. Could Bloom of 7 Eccles street foresee Bloom of Flowerville?

In loose allwool garments with Harris tweed cap, price 8/6, and useful
garden boots with elastic gussets and wateringcan, planting aligned
young firtrees, syringing, pruning, staking, sowing hayseed, trundling
a weedladen wheelbarrow without excessive fatigue at sunset amid the
scent of newmown hay, ameliorating the soil, multiplying wisdom,
achieving longevity. Lager without alacrity she served. Is Piper back?

Peter Piper pecked a peck of pick of peck of pickled pepper. Electric. Thanks be to
God he’s not paid yet. Old Dr Murren’s. —Please, please. Was it the little nuns
taught you to be so saucy? Here. At a corner two night watch
in shouldercapes, their hands upon their staffholsters, loom tall. —Sure I’m after seeing him not five minutes ago, says Alf, as plain as
a pikestaff. I got two
shillings from Jack Power and I spent twopence for a shave for the
funeral. Don’t tell them he was nine years old when it was quenched. See. Brings out the darkness of her eyes. Gerty MacDowell yearns in vain. Lighten up at the last
moment and recognise for the last time. The mimber?

—I won’t mention any names, says Alf. Corny Kelleher, laying a
wreath at each fore corner, beckoned to the boy to kneel. Father Conmee began to walk along the North Strand road and was saluted
by Mr William Gallagher who stood in the doorway of his shop. Regular hotbed of it
lately. Bloom
squeals, turning turtle. Richard
the conqueror, third brother, came after William the conquered. Mr Justice Fitzgibbon, the present lord justice of appeal, had
spoken and the paper under debate was an essay (new for those days),
advocating the revival of the Irish tongue. —Wait a shake, begged Lenehan, drinking quickly. —There can be no reconciliation, Stephen said, if there has not been a
sundering. Shy, deny thy kindred, the unco guid. Noon slumbers. Like ole
Billyo. _ I couldn’t bring him in
to hear the discussion. Gain time. E. Nothing else mattered. He averts his
face. And among the five young trees a hoisted
lintstock lit the lamp at Leahy’s terrace. J. Dist. Now, you’re talking straight, Mr Crimmins. Rhapsodies about damn all. In Ely place, Baggot street, Duke’s lawn, thence through
Merrion green up to Holles street a swash of water flowing that was
before bonedry and not one chair or coach or fiacre seen about but no
more crack after that first. Lashings of stuff we put up: port wine and sherry and
curacoa to which we did ample justice. Saint Ambrose heard it, sigh of leaves and waves, waiting,
awaiting the fullness of their times, _diebus ac noctibus iniurias
patiens ingemiscit_. She was a finelooking woman. Tap. _Dans ce bordel où tenons nostre état_. )_ Still, of course, you do get your Waterloo
sometimes. ) contentions
would appear to prove him pretty badly addicted runs directly counter
to accepted scientific methods. His ides of March or June. How strange! Today. Seat of the affections. You will see who. Tara. —O, excuse me!

He stepped aside nimbly. Unsmiling, he heard and saw with wonder a jew’s
daughter, all dressed in green. Breathe a prayer, drop a tear. —Show us over the drink, says I. Machines. Forgotten any little Spanish she knew. Miles
of ears of porches. Stephen laid the coin in her uneager hand. Suddenly he made
off like a bounding hare, ears flung back, chasing the shadow of a
lowskimming gull. Tap. The false priest
rustling soldier from his cassock. )_ By day you will souse and bat our smelling
underclothes also when we ladies are unwell, and swab out our latrines
with dress pinned up and a dishclout tied to your tail. Drink. My old chief Joe Cuffe. It. Lenehan, lighting it for him
with quick grace, said:

—Silence for my brandnew riddle!

—_Imperium romanum_, J. He said he’d try to come. Underfed she looks
too. What if that nightmare gave you a back kick?

—The ways of the Creator are not our ways, Mr Deasy said. )_ And when
Cairns came down from the scaffolding in Beaver street what was he
after doing it into only into the bucket of porter that was there
waiting on the shavings for Derwan’s plasterers. I stand, so to
speak, with an unposted letter bearing the extra regulation fee before
the too late box of the general postoffice of human life. That’s quite right, sir. The distinguished scientist Herr Professor Luitpold Blumenduft tendered
medical evidence to the effect that the instantaneous fracture of the
cervical vertebrae and consequent scission of the spinal cord would,
according to the best approved tradition of medical science, be
calculated to inevitably produce in the human subject a violent
ganglionic stimulus of the nerve centres of the genital apparatus,
thereby causing the elastic pores of the _corpora cavernosa_ to rapidly
dilate in such a way as to instantaneously facilitate the flow of blood
to that part of the human anatomy known as the penis or male organ
resulting in the phenomenon which has been denominated by the faculty a
morbid upwards and outwards philoprogenitive erection _in articulo
mortis per diminutionem capitis. —The finest man, says he, snivelling, the finest purest character. —Have you found those six brave medicals, John Eglinton asked with
elder’s gall, to write _Paradise Lost_ at your dictation? _The Sorrows
of Satan_ he calls it. J. _ A headland, a
ship, a sail upon the billows. Remove him. What sound accompanied the union of their tangent, the disunion of
their (respectively) centrifugal and centripetal hands?

The sound of the peal of the hour of the night by the chime of the
bells in the church of Saint George. Wait till you see. How’s that
tender behind? O, ever so gently, pet. The college curriculum. Come. _ Their Pali book we
tried to pawn. Must be the bur. He called me a jew and
in a heated fashion offensively. Wanted to
charge me for the edge he gave it. —How are you, Simon? Ned Lambert said softly, clasping hands. I was going to throw it away
that moment. His wife will put
the stopper on that. She rose. Alexander Keyes. Sundown, gunfire for the men
to cross the lines. O, commend me to an
israelite! Royal and privileged Hungarian robbery. All fades. _Hamlet ou_. Keep you on the run all day. Ed egli avea del cul fatto trombetta. We ought to have hats modelled on our heads. She thinks. Then he went to
the dresser, took the jug Hanlon’s milkman had just filled for him,
poured warmbubbled milk on a saucer and set it slowly on the floor. Isle of saints. Lovemaking damages. Gob, he’d let you pour all manner of drink down
his throat till the Lord would call him before you’d ever see the froth
of his pint. Still
gardens have their drawbacks. Silly
man! Could have made oceans of money. Will she come here
tomorrow? Wait for her somewhere for ever. With look to look. Head nodding in time. Miss Douce of satin douced her arm away. Nature. His eyes rested on her vigorous
hips. —What’s this I was saying? Ah, yes! My wife, he intimated, plunging _in
medias res_, would have the greatest of pleasure in making your
acquaintance as she is passionately attached to music of any kind. Fancy dress balls arranged. N. Pleasure or pain is it? Penny dinner. B. Faut que jeunesse se passe. Mason, I think: not sure. So Terry brought the three pints. You would give your five wits for youth’s proud livery he pranks
in. It is
music. Mr Bloom turned at Gray’s confectioner’s window of unbought tarts and
passed the reverend Thomas Connellan’s bookstore. Not a vestige of truth in it, I can safely say. Risk it. They
believe in chance because like themselves. Coincidence. Drawn on
a guncarriage. P. zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
    https://www. Tell
her: more and more: all. He turned his angry white moustache. D’ye ken bare socks? Seedy cuss in the
Richmond? Rawthere! Thought he had a deposit of lead in his penis. O, don’t they
know! Three years old she was in front of Molly’s dressingtable, just
before we left Lombard street west. Seen
its best days. He dwelt,
being a bit of an artist in his spare time, on the female form in
general developmentally because, as it so happened, no later than that
afternoon he had seen those Grecian statues, perfectly developed as
works of art, in the National Museum. Symbols too
of beauty and of power. It’s after they feel it. _

_At Antonio Rabaiotti’s door Bloom halts, sweated under the bright
arclamp. _

—That will do, Mr Deasy said. Everything speaks in
its own way. This isn’t a brothel. —Come on to blazes, said Blazes Boylan, going. , their master, whose identity is no
secret to adepts. Mr Bloom looked back towards the choir. Excellent. Plain truth for a plain man. The personal note. So they turned on to chatting about music, a form of art for which
Bloom, as a pure amateur, possessed the greatest love, as they made
tracks arm in arm across Beresford place. _(He
indicates vaguely Lynch and Bloom. Father Conmee, walking, thought of his little book _Old Times in the
Barony_ and of the book that might be written about jesuit houses and
of Mary Rochfort, daughter of lord Molesworth, first countess of
Belvedere. Just keep skin and bone together, bread and skilly. She’s in the
lying-in hospital in Holles street. I dreamt of a watermelon. LYNCH: He is. —How so? Davy Byrne asked, coming from his book. You owe
it. I saw John Henry Menton casually in the Bodega just now and it will
cost me a fall if I don’t. We don’t want any of your medieval abstrusiosities. Night Michael Gunn gave us the box. The kisses, winging from their bowers, fly about him,
twittering, warbling, cooing. Booted the twain and staved. And the others inclined to
give her an odd dig. Horne (Lic. She thanked me. Is the mouth south someway? Or the south a mouth? Must be
some. I am surrounded by
difficulties, by. Were there no means still remaining to him to achieve the rejuvenation
which these reminiscences divulged to a younger companion rendered the
more desirable?

The indoor exercises, formerly intermittently practised, subsequently
abandoned, prescribed in Eugen Sandow’s _Physical Strength and How to
Obtain It_ which, designed particularly for commercial men engaged in
sedentary occupations, were to be made with mental concentration in
front of a mirror so as to bring into play the various families of
muscles and produce successively a pleasant rigidity, a more pleasant
relaxation and the most pleasant repristination of juvenile agility. Trained by kindness. The
motorman bangs his footgong. Stephen turned and saw that the cold gaze which had measured him was
not all unkind. Norman W. )_

COUNCILLOR NANNETTI: _(Alone on deck, in dark alpaca, yellowkitefaced,
his hand in his waistcoat opening, declaims. There may be, it is true, some
questions which science cannot answer—at present—such as the first
problem submitted by Mr L. Murmured: Messrs Callan, Coleman and Co, limited. That was the rule, said. BELLO: _(Imperiously. ’Twixt me and you
Caddareesh. Fiercely she slaps his haunch, her goldcurb
wristbangles angriling, scolding him in Moorish. Mr Bloom unclasped his hands in a gesture of soft politeness and
clasped them. Prayer for the suffering souls in the
Ursuline manual and forty days’ indulgence. Ita and S. Tankard loved the song that Mina. I wonder will he allow us to
talk. O’Molloy said. Symmetry under a cemetery wall. In a moment they will laugh
more loudly, aware of my lack of rule and of the fees their papas pay. _ Then giddy woman will run about. Wonder how they explain it to the
heathen Chinee. )_ And sovereign Lord of all things. Tschunk. —Give it up, father, Dilly said. And butter for fish. —The kettle is boiling, he said. His inscrutable face which was really a work of
art, a perfect study in itself, beggaring description, conveyed the
impression that he didn’t understand one jot of what was going on. —Why, the sailor answered with a slow puzzled utterance, my son, Danny?
He’d be about eighteen now, way I figure it. Jolly for the wife. I could see the bluey silver over it. BLOOM: The just man falls seven times. Kernan. Mammoth
roses murmur of scarlet winegrapes. The
bloodiest old tartar God ever made. We feel in England that we have treated you
rather unfairly. Lord, I am wet. Like sir
Philip Crampton’s fountain. Dislike dressing together. The sailor grimaced, chewing, in a way that might be read as yes, ay or
no. First of the month it
must have been or the second. _(Bloom half rises. If you can have them
published at once. From hour to hour it rots and rots. Peels off a credit. Far. He flung the pages down. C. The gentleman aimed the ball once or twice and then
threw it up the strand towards Cissy Caffrey but it rolled down the
slope and stopped right under Gerty’s skirt near the little pool by the
rock. We are liege subjects of the catholic chivalry of Europe that foundered
at Trafalgar and of the empire of the spirit, not an _imperium,_ that
went under with the Athenian fleets at Aegospotami. Month’s mind:
Quinlan. She could see at once by his dark eyes and his pale intellectual face
that he was a foreigner, the image of the photo she had of Martin
Harvey, the matinee idol, only for the moustache which she preferred
because she wasn’t stagestruck like Winny Rippingham that wanted they
two to always dress the same on account of a play but she could not see
whether he had an aquiline nose or a slightly _retroussé_ from where he
was sitting. Make it up, please. You bore me away, framed me in oak and tinsel, set me
above your marriage couch. If
you imagine it’s there you can almost see it. —Come along, Stephen, the professor said. Shapely bathers on golden strand. Couldn’t ask him at a funeral, though. Mr Garrett Deasy. You coming long?
Whisper, who the sooty hell’s the johnny in the black duds? Hush!
Sinned against the light and even now that day is at hand when he shall
come to judge the world by fire. Molly and Mrs Fleming
making the bed. Yes, Mr Bloom thoroughly agreed, entirely endorsing the remark, that
was overwhelmingly right. Give us that biscuitbox here. , Arval, the Name
Ineffable, in heaven hight: K. —Who? Where? gold asked more eagerly. For Hindu widows only. Once by the churchyard he had passed and for his mother’s rest he
had not prayed. But Bloom sang dumb. What say? In the speakeasy. PADDY DIGNAM: By metempsychosis. Then here’s a health to Mulligan’s aunt
     And I’ll tell you the reason why. All kinds of Utopian plans were flashing through his (B’s) busy brain,
education (the genuine article), literature, journalism, prize titbits,
up to date billing, concert tours in English watering resorts packed
with hydros and seaside theatres, turning money away, duets in Italian
with the accent perfectly true to nature and a quantity of other
things, no necessity, of course, to tell the world and his wife from
the housetops about it, and a slice of luck. Beneath were sloping figures and at the foot a crooked signature with
blind loops and a blot. The apparitions of Knock and Lourdes. )_
Woman, it’s breaking me!

_(Denis Breen, whitetallhatted, with Wisdom Hely’s sandwichboards,
shuffles past them in carpet slippers, his dull beard thrust out,
muttering to right and left. He went
very suddenly. The passing bell is heard. You got me? It’s a lifebrightener, sure. Pray
for us. After Wicklow lane the window of Madame Doyle, courtdress milliner,
stopped him. _Voglio e non_. He is encrusted with weeds and shells. STEPHEN: To have or not to have that is the question. £ 800 plus
2 1/2 % interest on the same, repayable quarterly in equal annual
instalments until extinction by amortisation of loan advanced for
purchase within a period of 20 years, amounting to an annual rental of
£ 64, headrent included, the titledeeds to remain in possession of the
lender or lenders with a saving clause envisaging forced sale,
foreclosure and mutual compensation in the event of protracted failure
to pay the terms assigned, otherwise the messuage to become the
absolute property of the tenant occupier upon expiry of the period of
years stipulated. One story good till
you hear the next. J. Might be his house. Cease to strive. Sir? Spud again the
rheumatiz? All poppycock, you’ll scuse me saying. ? _(He bites his
thumb. BLOOM: Well, I follow a literary occupation, author-journalist. May Allah the
Excellent One your soul this night ever tremendously conserve. —Just one moment. Fifteen. A bowl of white china had
stood beside her deathbed holding the green sluggish bile which she had
torn up from her rotting liver by fits of loud groaning vomiting. )_ Him? Deep as a drawwell. An unseeing stripling stood in the door. All prick and no pence. There was no response forthcoming to the suggestion however, such as it
was, Stephen’s mind’s eye being too busily engaged in repicturing his
family hearth the last time he saw it with his sister Dilly sitting by
the ingle, her hair hanging down, waiting for some weak Trinidad shell
cocoa that was in the sootcoated kettle to be done so that she and he
could drink it with the oatmealwater for milk after the Friday herrings
they had eaten at two a penny with an egg apiece for Maggy, Boody and
Katey, the cat meanwhile under the mangle devouring a mess of eggshells
and charred fish heads and bones on a square of brown paper, in
accordance with the third precept of the church to fast and abstain on
the days commanded, it being quarter tense or if not, ember days or
something like that. Say out big, big. I have felt this instant
a twinge of sciatica in my left glutear muscle. More Irish than
the Irish. Proof of the pudding. )_ Show us one of them cushions. He was out of a job and implored of
Stephen to tell him where on God’s earth he could get something,
anything at all, to do. He laughed, lolling a to and fro head, walking on, followed by Stephen:
and mirthfully he told the shadows, souls of men:

—O, the night in the Camden hall when the daughters of Erin had to lift
their skirts to step over you as you lay in your mulberrycoloured,
multicoloured, multitudinous vomit!

—The most innocent son of Erin, Stephen said, for whom they ever lifted
them. Faithful departed. Or had. _(He sighs. —Only circumstantial, Martin Cunningham added. Might be what you like, till
you hear the words. Is. He came out into clearer air and turned back towards Grafton street. )_

BLOOM: _(Draws back, mechanically caressing her right bub with a flat
awkward hand. One: one, one, one, one,
one: two, one, three, four. Sent his heir over to make the king an
Austrian fieldmarshal now. He is going to
visit the present duke, Piper says, and prove to him that his ancestor
wrote the plays. Then saw
like yellow streaks on his face. THE ECHO: Sham!

BLOOM: _(Pigeonbreasted, bottleshouldered, padded, in nondescript
juvenile grey and black striped suit, too small for him, white tennis
shoes, bordered stockings with turnover tops and a red schoolcap with
badge. —All the leading provincial. Scratch
my head. Vintners’ sweepstake. cuisine, housemaid kept. John Wyse Nolan, lagging behind, reading the list, came after them
quickly down Cork hill. His hands plunged and
rummaged in his trunk while he called for a clean handkerchief. A garland of grey hair on his
comminated head see him me clambering down to the footpace
(_descende!_), clutching a monstrance, basiliskeyed. No fixed abode. Gravy’s rather good fit for a. —No, don’t, she cried. Left him weeping, I suppose?

—Though lost to sight, Mr Dedalus said, to memory dear. —Macintosh. He met schoolboys with satchels. We have him. God
knows what poxy bowsy left them off. —Yes, Mr Bloom said. Who was telling me? Holohan. Long live life!

EDWARD THE SEVENTH: _(Levitates over heaps of slain, in the garb and
with the halo of Joking Jesus, a white jujube in his phosphorescent
face. I was in Stockholm and the Black Sea,
the Dardanelles under Captain Dalton, the best bloody man that ever
scuttled a ship. BLOOM: With. Pulling, the gasjet
lights up a crushed mauve purple shade. )_ Big Brother up there, Mr
President, you hear what I done just been saying to you. Alderman Robert O’Reilly
emptying the port into his soup before the flag fell. Men, men, men. Your god was a jew. —Ay, Corny Kelleher said. She often looked at them
dreamily when she went there for a certain purpose and felt her own
arms that were white and soft just like hers with the sleeves back and
thought about those times because she had found out in Walker’s
pronouncing dictionary that belonged to grandpapa Giltrap about the
halcyon days what they meant. Bloom assented covertly to Stephen’s rectification of the anachronism
involved in assigning the date of the conversion of the Irish nation to
christianity from druidism by Patrick son of Calpornus, son of Potitus,
son of Odyssus, sent by pope Celestine I in the year 432 in the reign
of Leary to the year 260 or thereabouts in the reign of Cormac MacArt
(† 266 A. It’s a good
idea, you see. —Love and War, Ben, Mr Dedalus said. I was only vamping, man. —Who can answer a riddle? Stephen asked. _Boom_ (as it incorrectly stated) and the
line of bitched type but tickled to death simultaneously by C. Stephen stood up. Lenehan heard and
knew and hailed him:

—See the conquering hero comes. Crotthers was there at
the foot of the table in his striking Highland garb, his face glowing
from the briny airs of the Mull of Galloway. Sips of his
wine soothed his palate. They’re so particular. He saw the priest bend down and kiss the altar and then face about and
bless all the people. Paragoric poppysyrup bad for cough. )_ Awaiting your further orders we remain,
gentlemen,. Go to! You spent most of it in Georgina Johnson’s bed, clergyman’s
daughter. M’Coy’s white face smiled about it at instants and grew grave. Who is the ghost from _limbo patrum_,
returning to the world that has forgotten him? Who is King Hamlet?

John Eglinton shifted his spare body, leaning back to judge. You can pay all together, sir, when you
come back. Universal love. Horned spectacles hang down at the wings of the nose. That’s copy. BELLA: Who pays for the lamp? _(She seizes Bloom’s coattail. Bloom. at the
corner of Arbour hill there and be damned but a bloody sweep came along
and he near drove his gear into my eye. —He’s pretty well on, professor MacHugh said in a low voice. A couch by midwives attended
with wholesome food reposeful, cleanest swaddles as though
forthbringing were now done and by wise foresight set: but to this no
less of what drugs there is need and surgical implements which are
pertaining to her case not omitting aspect of all very distracting
spectacles in various latitudes by our terrestrial orb offered together
with images, divine and human, the cogitation of which by sejunct
females is to tumescence conducive or eases issue in the high sunbright
wellbuilt fair home of mothers when, ostensibly far gone and
reproductitive, it is come by her thereto to lie in, her term up. Accept my little present. Or a poison bouquet to strike him down. Now he’s really
what they call a dirty jew. He did not see. No, they will pass on, passing, chafing against the
low rocks, swirling, passing. And another one: _Black Beast Burned
in Omaha, Ga_. —You could try our friend, Mr Power suggested backward. BELLO: _(Coaxingly. All right
till I come back anyhow. Astonishing the things people leave
behind them in trains and cloakrooms. )_ All that man has seen!

A FEMINIST: _(Masculinely. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. Much? He
seehears lipspeech. Wandering Ængus I call him. —O, rocks! she said. Throstle fluted. One
bent to pluck from the haft a long tuft of grass. Tight trou. And it is
rather long to tell. But wait. )_

     May the God above
     Send down a dove
     With teeth as sharp as razors
     To slit the throats
     Of the English dogs
     That hanged our Irish leaders. Beside him stands Father Coffey,
chaplain, toadbellied, wrynecked, in a surplice and bandanna nightcap,
holding sleepily a staff of twisted poppies. All those who are interested in the spread of human culture among the
lower animals (and their name is legion) should make a point of not
missing the really marvellous exhibition of cynanthropy given by the
famous old Irish red setter wolfdog formerly known by the _sobriquet_
of Garryowen and recently rechristened by his large circle of friends
and acquaintances Owen Garry. S. Looked shut. M. A coat of liver of sulphur. In cups of rocks it
slops: flop, slop, slap: bounded in barrels. She calls her children home in their dark
language. _ Every life is many days, day after day. _

A cavalcade in easy trot along Pembroke quay passed, outriders leaping,
leaping in their, in their saddles. )_

THE CROWD:

     Card of the races. It lies upon their eager faces who offered him a coin of the
tribute. Terry! Are you
asleep?

—Yes, sir, says Terry. To
remedy which our cozening dames and damsels brought him his fodder in
their apronlaps and as soon as his belly was full he would rear up on
his hind quarters to show their ladyships a mystery and roar and bellow
out of him in bulls’ language and they all after him. Florry Talbot, a blond
feeble goosefat whore in a tatterdemalion gown of mildewed strawberry,
lolls spreadeagle in the sofacorner, her limp forearm pendent over the
bolster, listening. She looked at him a moment, meeting his glance,
and a light broke in upon her. Perhaps to Levenston’s dancing academy piano. Coffin now. But
his heart is buried in Rome. Tap. He prolonged his pleased smile. Come in. BELLA: _(Almost speechless. Sonnez la. At walking pace. My mother’s a jew, my father’s a bird. —The wandering jew, Buck Mulligan whispered with clown’s awe. Bloom starts forward
involuntarily and, half closing the door as he passes, takes the
chocolate from his pocket and offers it nervously to Zoe. On the antlered rack of the hall
hang a man’s hat and waterproof. E. Suffered
untold misery. Hurry up, damn it. —I’m coming, Stephen said, turning. Simon Dedalus said
when they put him in parliament that Parnell would come back from the
grave and lead him out of the house of commons by the arm. All my
babies, she said. I ought to profess Greek, the language of the mind. A raw onion the last thing at night
would benefit your complexion. No? Then, a twisted grey garter looped round a
stocking: rumpled, shiny sole. _(Bloom walks on a net, covers his left eye with his left ear, passes
through several walls, climbs Nelson’s Pillar, hangs from the top ledge
by his eyelids, eats twelve dozen oysters (shells included), heals
several sufferers from king’s evil, contracts his face so as to
resemble many historical personages, Lord Beaconsfield, Lord Byron, Wat
Tyler, Moses of Egypt, Moses Maimonides, Moses Mendelssohn, Henry
Irving, Rip van Winkle, Kossuth, Jean Jacques Rousseau, Baron Leopold
Rothschild, Robinson Crusoe, Sherlock Holmes, Pasteur, turns each foot
simultaneously in different directions, bids the tide turn back,
eclipses the sun by extending his little finger. All music when you come to think. Meet one Sunday after the rosary. Not arrived yet. Row with her in the
XL Café about the bracelet. Fellow might damn easy
get a nasty fall there coming along tight in the dark. That was two and nine. Good pick me up. Bargain: six bob. He steps
left, ragsackman left. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1. He offered to send me through the
post a work of fiction by Monsieur Paul de Kock, entitled _The Girl
with the Three Pairs of Stays_. Olives are packed in
jars, eh? I have a few left from Andrews. New York disaster. Lead him not into temptation. _(He cheers feebly. )_

FATHER FARLEY: He is an episcopalian, an agnostic, an anythingarian
seeking to overthrow our holy faith. —O saints above! miss Douce said, sighed above her jumping rose. Fried with butter, a shake of pepper. Mamma,
poor mamma, and little Rudy. The broadcloth back
ascended each step: back. And the traveller Leopold was couth to him sithen it had happed
that they had had ado each with other in the house of misericord where
this learningknight lay by cause the traveller Leopold came there to be
healed for he was sore wounded in his breast by a spear wherewith a
horrible and dreadful dragon was smitten him for which he did do make a
salve of volatile salt and chrism as much as he might suffice. Rest rubble,
sprawling suburbs, jerrybuilt. Just that moment I was thinking. Spain again, you saw in the war,
compared with goahead America. Fair
day and all the beef to the heels were in. Flea having a good square meal. Mgr
M’Manus, V. That’s the great empire they
boast about of drudges and whipped serfs. Out it rushes: blue. Are you not finished with him yet,
suckeress?

BLOOM: _(Stifling. org/4/3/0/4300/

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. Must go prince Bloom told Richie prince. Ah, to be sure!

Stephen reached back and took the milkjug from the locker. Ashes to
ashes. Don John Conmee walked and moved in times of yore. Quills in the postoffice chewed and twisted. Her stockings are loose over her ankles. J. Have to let fly. —Are you going yourself?

—Well no, Mr Bloom said. Your Christmas dinner for threepence. How moving the scene there in the gathering twilight, the last glimpse
of Erin, the touching chime of those evening bells and at the same time
a bat flew forth from the ivied belfry through the dusk, hither,
thither, with a tiny lost cry. Silly Milly’s birthday gift. Sharp as needles they are. Far. No, snuffled it up. Say something to him. His pale Galilean eyes were upon her mesial groove. The Project Gutenberg eBook of Ulysses, by James Joyce

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. BLOOM: Yes. Whether on the scaffold high. —Doing any singing those times?

Look at his mouth. J. Hard to breathe and all the young quicks clean consumed without
sprinkle this long while back as no man remembered to be without. Who could know the truth? Not the
jealous lord Belvedere and not her confessor if she had not committed
adultery fully, _eiaculatio seminis inter vas naturale mulieris,_ with
her husband’s brother? She would half confess if she had not all sinned
as women did. Our great day, she said. I mine. Haines stopped to take out a smooth silver case in which twinkled a
green stone. His free hand graciously wrote tiny signs in air. Appointment we made knowing we’d never, well hardly ever. He heard her sad words, in held hat sad staring. This was it what all that company that sat there at commons in Manse of
Mothers the most lusted after and if they met with this whore
Bird-in-the-Hand (which was within all foul plagues, monsters and a
wicked devil) they would strain the last but they would make at her and
know her. I’m
partially drunk, by the way. )_ More harm than
good. His human eyes scream to me
out of horror of his death. Kitty Ricketts, a bony
pallid whore in navy costume, doeskin gloves rolled back from a coral
wristlet, a chain purse in her hand, sits perched on the edge of the
table swinging her leg and glancing at herself in the gilt mirror over
the mantelpiece. The carriage, passing the open drains and mounds of rippedup roadway
before the tenement houses, lurched round the corner and, swerving back
to the tramtrack, rolled on noisily with chattering wheels. )_ Gaelic
league spy, sent by that fireeater. Much better to close up all the orifices. It rose. The paly light of evening falls
upon a face infinitely sad and wistful. Counted them. He’s dead. )_ Keekeereekee!

_(Bloom surveys uncertainly the three whores then gazes at the veiled
mauve light, hearing the everflying moth. )_ Man and woman, love, what is it? A cork and
bottle. You’re right, by God. Your mother and some visitor came out of the
drawingroom. Carefully avoiding a book in his pocket _Sweets of_, which reminded him
by the by of that Capel street library book out of date, he took out
his pocketbook and, turning over the various contents it contained
rapidly finally he. MRS YELVERTON BARRY: _(In lowcorsaged opal balldress and elbowlength
ivory gloves, wearing a sabletrimmed brickquilted dolman, a comb of
brilliants and panache of osprey in her hair. He thumps the parapet. What fragments of verse from the ancient Hebrew and ancient Irish
languages were cited with modulations of voice and translation of texts
by guest to host and by host to guest?

By Stephen: _suil, suil, suil arun, suil go siocair agus suil go cuin_
(walk, walk, walk your way, walk in safety, walk with care). No. A scheme for the use of dogvans and goatvans for the
delivery of early morning milk. BLOOM: _(Bends his blushing face into his armpit and simpers with
forefinger in mouth. She stands. : a press cutting
of recipe for renovation of old tan boots: a 1d adhesive stamp,
lavender, of the reign of Queen Victoria: a chart of the measurements
of Leopold Bloom compiled before, during and after 2 months’
consecutive use of Sandow-Whiteley’s pulley exerciser (men’s 15/-,
athlete’s 20/-) viz. —Yes, Red Murray agreed. With his bit of beard!

Douce gave full vent to a splendid yell, a full yell of full woman,
delight, joy, indignation. Another newsboy shot past them, yelling as he ran:

—Racing special!

DEAR DIRTY DUBLIN


Dubliners. —And the story, sir?

—After, Stephen said. Will you please?. Poldy Kock, Bootlaces a penny, Cassidy’s hag, blind
stripling, Larry Rhinoceros, the girl, the woman, the whore, the other,
the. Two and six. That doctrine of _laissez faire_
which so often in our history. Old Monks, the dayfather. He’s giving
Sceptre today. The muchtreasured and intricately embroidered ancient Irish facecloth
attributed to Solomon of Droma and Manus Tomaltach og MacDonogh,
authors of the Book of Ballymote, was then carefully produced and
called forth prolonged admiration. Still they’d
kiss all right if properly keyed up. —What Dignam was that? long John Fanning asked. Beyond the hind carriage a hawker stood by his barrow of cakes and
fruit. Give my love to
mummy and to yourself a big kiss and thanks. )_ My turn now
on. Only five she was then. The bloody mongrel let a grouse out of him would give you the creeps. It’s a very stiff
birth, the nurse told me. The blind stripling turned his sickly
face after the striding form. )_ We have here
damning evidence, the _corpus delicti_, my lord, a specimen of my
maturer work disfigured by the hallmark of the beast. Per second per second. As for undies they were Gerty’s
chief care and who that knows the fluttering hopes and fears of sweet
seventeen (though Gerty would never see seventeen again) can find it in
his heart to blame her? She had four dinky sets with awfully pretty
stitchery, three garments and nighties extra, and each set slotted with
different coloured ribbons, rosepink, pale blue, mauve and peagreen,
and she aired them herself and blued them when they came home from the
wash and ironed them and she had a brickbat to keep the iron on because
she wouldn’t trust those washerwomen as far as she’d see them scorching
the things. Runs, she runs to meet me, a
girl with gold hair on the wind. C. It’s perfectly obvious that with the most
inherent baseness he has cribbed some of my bestselling copy, really
gorgeous stuff, a perfect gem, the love passages in which are beneath
suspicion. Every cove to his gentry mort. O’Hara’s tower. )_ I know. The lump I have is useless. He’s gone over to the
lying-in hospital they told me. Paint face behind on him then
he’d be two. Yes. Why me? Because you were so foreign
from the others. The
scenes depicted on the emunctory field, showing our ancient duns and
raths and cromlechs and grianauns and seats of learning and maledictive
stones, are as wonderfully beautiful and the pigments as delicate as
when the Sligo illuminators gave free rein to their artistic fantasy
long long ago in the time of the Barmecides. —Pint of stout. Absinthe. Never put on you
tomorrow what you can wear today. The benign forehead of the quaker librarian enkindled rosily with hope. —That’s the man now that gave it to me, Bantam Lyons whispered. L. As?

Inasmuch as leaning she sustained her blond hair for him to ribbon it
for her (cf neckarching cat). Faces of hamadryads peep out from the
boles and among the leaves and break, blossoming into bloom. Bald he was and a
millionaire, _maestro di color che sanno_. Shrieks of dying. Be sure now and write to me. See it in your eye. You could tear up a cheque for a hundred pounds in the
same way. I’ll flay him
alive. He faced about and, standing between the awnings, held out his right
hand at arm’s length towards the sun. Moorish. —_Anch’io ho avuto di queste idee_, Almidano Artifoni said, _quand’ ero
giovine come Lei. So, bevelling around by Mullett’s and the
Signal House which they shortly reached, they proceeded perforce in the
direction of Amiens street railway terminus, Mr Bloom being handicapped
by the circumstance that one of the back buttons of his trousers had,
to vary the timehonoured adage, gone the way of all buttons though,
entering thoroughly into the spirit of the thing, he heroically made
light of the mischance. Can real
love, supposing there happens to be another chap in the case, exist
between married folk? Poser. )_

STEPHEN: _Pas seul!_

_(He wheels Kitty into Lynch’s arms, snatches up his ashplant from the
table and takes the floor. I would want to. Tap. S. —You’re in black, I see. Each
has his name printed in legible letters on his shirtfront: Nasodoro,
Goldfinger, Chrysostomos, Maindorée, Silversmile, Silberselber,
Vifargent, Panargyros. —Emigrants, Mr Power said. Near are lakes. In wild
attitudes they spring from the brink. Cheaper transit. And it can be
cured. Elijah thirtytwo feet
per sec is com. He was bloody safe he wasn’t run in
himself under the act that time as a rogue and vagabond only he had a
friend in court. The air in firmer waltz
time sounds. War comes on: into the army helterskelter: same fellows
used to. Not as much as a farthing to purchase a night’s lodgings. Worst man in Dublin. O thing of prudent nation not merely in
being seen but also even in being related worthy of being praised that
they her by anticipation went seeing mother, that she by them suddenly
to be about to be cherished had been begun she felt!

Before born bliss babe had. _(To Zoe. Most trenchant rendition of that ballad,
upon my soul and honour it is. Tired seemingly, he ceased. Just a moment. —Back in no time, Mr Bloom said, hurrying out. Relieving office here. —Speak up for yourself, Mr O’Madden Burke said. )_ The name if you call. A tag of her corsetlace hangs slightly below her
jacket. Yes, but W is
wonderful. He crossed at Nassau street corner and stood before the window of
Yeates and Son, pricing the fieldglasses. And a
pound and a half of Denny’s sausages. F. My wife and your wife. Paralyse Europe. The nursingwoman answered him and said that that woman was in
throes now full three days and that it would be a hard birth unneth to
bear but that now in a little it would be. Cissy
Caffrey bent over to him to tease his fat little plucks and the dainty
dimple in his chin. Cornelius and S. BLOOM: Not likely. —Where is he? Mr Dedalus said, stretching over across. _(She pats him. Why in? Diaphane, adiaphane. Cubicle number so and so. Calls for more effort. Lap, _lapin. BLOOM: _(Fainting. And he
cited the Moses of Michelangelo in the vatican. ): to certify the presence or absence of posterior rectal orifice in
the case of Hellenic female divinities: to obtain admission (gratuitous
or paid) to the performance of _Leah_ by Mrs Bandmann Palmer at the
Gaiety Theatre, 46, 47, 48, 49 South King street. Eightyseven that was. Next chap rubs on a new batch with his. Mastiansky, The Reverend Leopold
Abramovitz, Chazen. He came a step a sinkapace forward on neatsleather creaking and a step
backward a sinkapace on the solemn floor. Dogs’ cold noses. BLOOM: My spine’s a bit limp. Robert
Emmet’s last words. What is that, a bob here and there, dribs
and drabs. Then she set it all forth to him for because she knew
the man that time was had lived nigh that house. A mormon. Or was it you shot the lord lieutenant of Finland
between you? You look as though you had done the deed. Apologise. Funny sight two of them together, their bellies out. An obese grey rat toddled along the side of the crypt, moving the
pebbles. Refracts (is it?) heat. )_ Big Ben! Ben my Chree!

A VOICE: Hold that fellow with the bad breeches. She said that he had a fair sweet death through God His
goodness with masspriest to be shriven, holy housel and sick men’s oil
to his limbs. Listen. Shakespeare said. After life’s journey. Fifteen. She would care for him with creature
comforts too for Gerty was womanly wise and knew that a mere man liked
that feeling of hominess. O’Molloy resumed, moulding his words:

—He said of it: _that stony effigy in frozen music, horned and
terrible, of the human form divine, that eternal symbol of wisdom and
of prophecy which, if aught that the imagination or the hand of
sculptor has wrought in marble of soultransfigured and of
soultransfiguring deserves to live, deserves to live. As less
reprehensible than theft, highway robbery, cruelty to children and
animals, obtaining money under false pretences, forgery, embezzlement,
misappropriation of public money, betrayal of public trust,
malingering, mayhem, corruption of minors, criminal libel, blackmail,
contempt of court, arson, treason, felony, mutiny on the high seas,
trespass, burglary, jailbreaking, practice of unnatural vice, desertion
from armed forces in the field, perjury, poaching, usury, intelligence
with the king’s enemies, impersonation, criminal assault, manslaughter,
wilful and premeditated murder. Didn’t see me. But the word of Mr
Costello was an unwelcome language for him for he nauseated the wretch
that seemed to him a cropeared creature of a misshapen gibbosity, born
out of wedlock and thrust like a crookback toothed and feet first into
the world, which the dint of the surgeon’s pliers in his skull lent
indeed a colour to, so as to put him in thought of that missing link of
creation’s chain desiderated by the late ingenious Mr Darwin. Ominous
revengeful zodiacal host! They moan, passing upon the clouds, horned
and capricorned, the trumpeted with the tusked, the lionmaned, the
giantantlered, snouter and crawler, rodent, ruminant and pachyderm, all
their moving moaning multitude, murderers of the sun. She felt a kind of a
sensation rushing all over her and she knew by the feel of her scalp
and that irritation against her stays that that thing must be coming on
because the last time too was when she clipped her hair on account of
the moon. ZOE: Do as you’re bid. What was he saying? The ends of the
world with a Scotch accent. Bloom with his hand
assuralooms Corny Kelleher that he is reassuraloomtay. His palfrey neighs. —O, I’m sure that will be all right, Hynes, says Bloom. What additional didactic counsels did he similarly repress?

Dietary: concerning the respective percentage of protein and caloric
energy in bacon, salt ling and butter, the absence of the former in the
lastnamed and the abundance of the latter in the firstnamed. Vehement breath of
waters amid seasnakes, rearing horses, rocks. Selling new at two guineas. )_ You
funny ass, you! You’re too beastly awfully weird for words! I don’t
think you need over excessively disincommodate yourself in that regard. Twentyfour solicitors in that one house. Dogs licking the blood off the street when the lord lieutenant’s wife
drove by in her noddy. The
night air was certainly now a treat to breathe though Stephen was a bit
weak on his pins. Forget, forgive. Tim Kelly, or Kavanagh I mean. That
was their secret, only theirs, alone in the hiding twilight and there
was none to know or tell save the little bat that flew so softly
through the evening to and fro and little bats don’t tell. I think you’ll find that’s right. Is that Boylan well off? He has money. )_

ZOE: _(Twirls round herself, heeltapping. Tap. Sometimes children turn out well enough. Big blowout. The bear Sackerson growls in the pit near it, Paris garden. —_Ora pro nobis_, Monk Mulligan groaned, sinking to a chair. Molesworth street is opposite. What might be the name of this erigible or erected residence?

Bloom Cottage. James Murphy, S. The sewage. A goodlooking sovereign. Give him
twopence tip. Of what similar apparitions did Stephen think?

Of others elsewhere in other times who, kneeling on one knee or on two,
had kindled fires for him, of Brother Michael in the infirmary of the
college of the Society of Jesus at Clongowes Wood, Sallins, in the
county of Kildare: of his father, Simon Dedalus, in an unfurnished room
of his first residence in Dublin, number thirteen Fitzgibbon street: of
his godmother Miss Kate Morkan in the house of her dying sister Miss
Julia Morkan at 15 Usher’s Island: of his aunt Sara, wife of Richie
(Richard) Goulding, in the kitchen of their lodgings at 62 Clanbrassil
street: of his mother Mary, wife of Simon Dedalus, in the kitchen of
number twelve North Richmond street on the morning of the feast of
Saint Francis Xavier 1898: of the dean of studies, Father Butt, in the
physics’ theatre of university College, 16 Stephen’s Green, north: of
his sister Dilly (Delia) in his father’s house in Cabra. Messrs Callan,
Coleman. T. What were habitually his final meditations?

Of some one sole unique advertisement to cause passers to stop in
wonder, a poster novelty, with all extraneous accretions excluded,
reduced to its simplest and most efficient terms not exceeding the span
of casual vision and congruous with the velocity of modern life. Better for your mother
take the strap to you at the bedpost, hussy like you. A man passed out between them, bowing, greeting. )_ All now? I should not have parted with my
talisman. Wonder who was that chap at the grave in the brown macin. There
grew she to peerless beauty where loquat and almond scent the air. Go home to nicey bread and milky and say night
prayers with the kiddies. God knows you have more spirit than any of them. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U. Be not afeard neither for any want for
this will comfort more than the other will dismay. Corpse. Where is she?

—Bathing Crissie, sir. She
passed a remark. Pray at an altar. OMINOUS—FOR HIM!


J. The
debaters were the keenest in the land, the theme they were engaged on
the loftiest and most vital. He stared at them proudly, piled stone
mammoth skulls. He has some bloody horse up his sleeve for the Gold cup. The voice of warning, solemn warning, told them the youth had entered a
lonely hall, told them how solemn fell his footsteps there, told them
the gloomy chamber, the vested priest sitting to shrive. The onelegged sailor growled at the area of 14 Nelson street:

—_England expects_. Perhaps I will without
writing. Pier with lamps, summer evening, band. )_

MRS BREEN: Mr. Now that was
farseeing. It was a knockout clean and clever. Chap sold me the Swedish razor he shaved me with. No
security. Had any special agility been his in earlier youth?

Though ringweight lifting had been beyond his strength and the full
circle gyration beyond his courage yet as a High school scholar he had
excelled in his stable and protracted execution of the half lever
movement on the parallel bars in consequence of his abnormally
developed abdominal muscles. O, I must tell you what Dowden said!

—What? asked Besteglinton. It was in a Kilkenny paper. Bowsing nowt but claretwine. Mr Best entered, tall, young, mild, light. Want to make good pastry, butter, best flour, Demerara sugar,
or they’d taste it with the hot tea. Most licentious custom. Too much trouble to fag up the stairs to the
landing. —A child, a girl, placed in his arms, Marina. Accusations
are made in anger. Though our ages. Mr Dedalus, tugging a long moustache, came round from Williams’s row. Refuse christian burial. 29 Windsor avenue. Always at home at dinnertime. Vance in High school cracking his
fingerjoints, teaching. Jugged hare. Did she know where the lord lieutenant
was going? And heard steelhoofs ringhoof ring. You can’t. —Try it with the glycerine, miss Kennedy advised. Ought
to go home and laugh at themselves. Mr Bloom with his argol bargol. Easily flew. Tempting poor simple males. —Morrow, nephew. Mustard hair and dauby cheeks. Got up wrong
side of the bed. Gob, he had his mouth half way down the tumbler already. Ah, lure! Alluring. Penny roll and a walk
with the band. I’d
like my job. There’s my discharge. Hope the rain mucks them up on her. Lucky
it didn’t. Really, Mr Bloom said (though first he fancied he alluded to
the archbishop till he added about foot and mouth with which there
could be no possible connection) overjoyed to set his mind at rest and
a bit flabbergasted at Myles Crawford’s after all managing to. )_ He is our friend. Better turn
down here. That’s the
fascination: the name. He infinitely preferred the sacred music of the
catholic church to anything the opposite shop could offer in that line
such as those Moody and Sankey hymns or _Bid me to live and I will live
thy protestant to be_. Good, better, best. Some, to example, there are again whose
movements are automatic. Shake a shake. )_ Gentleman, patriot, scholar
and judge of impostors. Lenehan, small eyes ahunger on her humming, bust ahumming, tugged
Blazes Boylan’s elbowsleeve. Are
you trying to imitate your uncle John, the cornetplayer, head upon
shoulder? Melancholy God!

Dilly shrugged her shoulders. The debate which ensued was in its scope and progress an epitome of the
course of life. Bloom plodges forward again through the sump. So
similarly he had a very shrewd suspicion that Mr Johnny Lever got rid
of some £. _(She limps
over to the table. The hoarse Dublin United
Tramway Company’s timekeeper bawled them off:

—Rathgar and Terenure!

—Come on, Sandymount Green!

Right and left parallel clanging ringing a doubledecker and a
singledeck moved from their railheads, swerved to the down line, glided
parallel. Ought to be
sideways and red it should be painted like a real heart. His eyes passed lightly over Mr Power’s goodlooking face. Not too dusty? What?

He turned to both. And who is the gentleman does be visiting there? Was
the young master saying anything? Peeping Tom through the keyhole. —Mine would be often empty, Stephen said. Like Shakespeare’s face. J. Is he hurted? Don’t manhandle him!
He’s fainted!

A HAG: What call had the redcoat to strike the gentleman and he under
the influence. Cramped in this carriage. What prospect of what phenomena inclined him to remain?

The disparition of three final stars, the diffusion of daybreak, the
apparition of a new solar disk. THE NYMPH: During dark nights I heard your praise. Pat! Doesn’t hear. Goodbye. 25. There was a fellow I knew once in Barcelona, queer
fellow, used to call it his postprandial. , alone, in the church of the Three
Patrons, Rathgar. Muddy swinesnouts, hands, root and root, gripe and wrest
them. )_

OLD GUMMY GRANNY: _(Thrusts a dagger towards Stephen’s hand. Heard as a boy. Corny Kelleher and the boy
followed with their wreaths. Getting up in a
minute. _(She counts. Sunwarm silk. )_ Hound of
dishonour!

BLOOM: _(Infatuated. Virag reaches the door in two
ungainly stilthops, his tail cocked, and deftly claps sideways on the
wall a pusyellow flybill, butting it with his head. O. BLOOM: Science. O. No, not like that. Mr Bloom’s hand unbuttoned his hip pocket swiftly
and transferred the paperstuck soap to his inner handkerchief pocket. Who the deuce scrawled all over those
walls with matches? Looks as if they did it for a bet. Come on. Boiled shirt affair. _(He twists her arm. I had
one like that when we lived in Lombard street west. Why? Belief in himself has been untimely
killed. Bitten off more than he can chew. )_

FLORRY: _(Strives heavily to rise. My familiar, after me, calling, Steeeeeeeeeeeephen! A wavering line
along the path. Hello. On the doorstep all the whores
clustered talk volubly, pointing to the right where the fog has cleared
off. The old love was waiting, waiting with little white
hands stretched out, with blue appealing eyes. )_ Imagination. His heavy glance drowsily roaming about kind of defied their further
questions even should they by any chance want to. Poor children! Doubles them up black and blue in convulsions. With Hamilton Long’s
syringe, the ladies’ friend. Black candles rise from its gospel and epistle horns. J. As easy stop the sea. Bring Starkey. _(He bends
again and, hesitating, brings his mouth near the face of the prostrate
form. LYNCH: _(Embracing Kitty on the sofa, chants deeply. _ He mightn’t like it, though. While the other was reading it on page two Boom (to give him for the
nonce his new misnomer) whiled away a few odd leisure moments in fits
and starts with the account of the third event at Ascot on page three,
his side. Lipoti Virag,
basilicogrammate, chutes rapidly down through the chimneyflue and
struts two steps to the left on gawky pink stilts. Is lost. Well, sir, the husband
took him by the throat. _Amoroso ma non troppo. Kinch, the loveliest
mummer of them all!

He shaved evenly and with care, in silence, seriously. Virtuous: but
occasionally they were also badtempered. Put us all into it, damn
its soul. Ay but they might object to be buried out of another fellow’s. He came nearer and heard a crunching of gilded oats, the gently
champing teeth. blast your
soul. BLOOM: _(Goes to the window to open it more. That is how poets write, the similar sounds. )_ Splendid!
Spanish fly in his fly or mustard plaster on his dibble. A soft answer turns away wrath. I’ll tell. Turning into Dorset street he said freshly in greeting through the
doorway:

—Good day, Mr O’Rourke. FIRST WATCH: Regiment. I was in a situation,
six pounds a year and my chances with Fridays out and I had to leave
owing to his carryings on. Heatwave. He rested an innocent book on the edge of the desk, smiling his
defiance. Vibrations. )_ To show you how he hit the paper. U. —Ay, ay, Ben. Had the time of
their lives. will
(D. Part for the whole. They ought to have some
law to pierce the heart and make sure or an electric clock or a
telephone in the coffin and some kind of a canvas airhole. What advantages were possessed by an occupied, as distinct from an
unoccupied bed?

The removal of nocturnal solitude, the superior quality of human
(mature female) to inhuman (hotwaterjar) calefaction, the stimulation
of matutinal contact, the economy of mangling done on the premises in
the case of trousers accurately folded and placed lengthwise between
the spring mattress (striped) and the woollen mattress (biscuit
section). A mother watches
me from her doorway. But what I am anxious to arrive at is it is one thing for
instance to invent those rays Röntgen did or the telescope like Edison,
though I believe it was before his time Galileo was the man, I mean,
and the same applies to the laws, for example, of a farreaching natural
phenomenon such as electricity but it’s a horse of quite another colour
to say you believe in the existence of a supernatural God. J. Mr Bloom entered and sat in the vacant place. Tiresome kind of a job. Moonlight silver effulgence. Upholding the lid he (who?) gazed in the coffin (coffin?) at the
oblique triple (piano!) wires. M’Coy valise. I’m
sure it’s the burgund. Sauce for the goose, my gander O. No, sir, I’ll make no order for payment. Agendath Netaim:
planters’ company. His finger leaped and struck point after point, vibrating. Callan, Coleman, Dignam Patrick. E. Meade’s timberyard. He wears a hairshirt of pure Irish
manufacture winter and summer and scourges himself every Saturday. _

_(Renewed laughter. A mound of damp clods rose more, rose, and the gravediggers rested
their spades. A part of the walls of Dublin, crowded with
loyal sightseers, collapses. Know who that is. Red rails fly spacewards. —You’re right there, Nosey Flynn said. —Isn’t it awfully good? Mr Bloom said eagerly. Allude to it. _(A
black skullcap descends upon his head. Plamtroo. Everyone to his taste as Morris said when he
kissed the cow. Dominie Deasy kens them a’. )_ Stephen! _(There is no answer. He pulled himself erect,
went to it and, spinning it on its axle, viewed its shape and brass
furnishings. )_ Where’s that
Goddamned cursed ashtray?

BLOOM: _(Goaded, buttocksmothered. First thoughts are best. And were on for a go with the
jolly girls. 1. ’Tis as
cheap sitting as standing. He got that kink,
fascinated by sister’s stays. You see the idea is to tour the
chief towns. In a photographer’s there. No. Bit torn off. A fresh torrent of tears burst from
their lachrymal ducts and the vast concourse of people, touched to the
inmost core, broke into heartrending sobs, not the least affected being
the aged prebendary himself. _(She gives him the
glad eye. Not so lonely. )_ Leg it, ye devils! _(He kisses the bedsores of a
palsied veteran. I
must satisfy an animal need. See real beauty of the eye when she not speaks. —There he is, she said. Then come out a bit
spreeish. _(She swishes her huntingcrop savagely in the air. H. Police chargesheets crammed with cases get their
percentage manufacturing crime. A stifled sigh came from under Mr Power’s hand. They must be starved. Believe. Sweet are the sweets. Better leave him the
paper and get shut of him. Cowley it is. He put down his name for a quid. PHILIP DRUNK: _(Impatiently. —My wife? says Bloom. —Sad occasions, Mr Kernan began politely. He laughed again at the now smiling bearded face. To those who create
themselves wits at the cost of feminine delicacy (a habit of mind which
he never did hold with) to them he would concede neither to bear the
name nor to herit the tradition of a proper breeding: while for such
that, having lost all forbearance, can lose no more, there remained the
sharp antidote of experience to cause their insolency to beat a
precipitate and inglorious retreat. A lot of Deadwood Dicks in slouch hats and they firing
at a Sambo strung up in a tree with his tongue out and a bonfire under
him. She did not mind. No. But Bob Doran shouts out of him. I’m told for a fact he ate a good part of the breeches off
a constabulary man in Santry that came round one time with a blue paper
about a licence. Still Captain Culler broke a window in the
Kildare street club with a slog to square leg. Your head it simply swirls. We are all looking
forward anxiously. They like sad
tail at end. Allfather, the
heavenly man. From whom? From the
milkwoman or from him. Strings. The horses he passed started nervously under their slack harness. —O, don’t be talking! she said. His blued feet
out of turnedup trousers slapped the clammy sand, a dull brick muffler
strangling his unshaven neck. With a saffron kilt? O’Neill Russell? O,
yes, he must speak the grand old tongue. My wife is, so to speak, Spanish, half that is. The pack of staghounds follows, nose to the ground,
sniffing their quarry, beaglebaying, burblbrbling to be blooded. and there was a hell of a lot of
draught. Yes, also. Ladies who like
distinctive underclothing should, and every welltailored man must,
trying to make the gap wider between them by innuendo and give more of
a genuine filip to acts of impropriety between the two, she unbuttoned
his and then he untied her, mind the pin, whereas savages in the
cannibal islands, say, at ninety degrees in the shade not caring a
continental. Those
crawthumpers, now that’s a good name for them, there’s always something
shiftylooking about them. In Grimm too, don’t you know, the fairytales. Like him was I, these sloping shoulders, this gracelessness. Felt heavier myself stepping out of that bath. Richie led on. Then he came back and put it back in the bucket. Soon I am old. Must be Cowley. He pushed past them to the files. She has it. Nobody owns. —What age is he? queried one hearer who, by the way, seen from the
side, bore a distant resemblance to Henry Campbell, the townclerk, away
from the carking cares of office, unwashed of course and in a seedy
getup and a strong suspicion of nosepaint about the nasal appendage. Fiddlefaddle about notes. With gaping mouth and head far back he stood still and, after an
instant, sneezed loudly. Not twenty I’m sure he was. O, fie! Out on’t! _Pfuiteufel!_ You naughtn’t to look, missus, so you
naughtn’t when a lady’s ashowing of her elemental. Yes, it was very probable that Father Bernard Vaughan would
come again to preach. THE MOTHER: _(With smouldering eyes. somewhere) and the
fictitious addressee of the missive which made him nourish some
suspicions of our friend’s _bona fides_ nevertheless it reminded him in
a way of a longcherished plan he meant to one day realise some
Wednesday or Saturday of travelling to London _via_ long sea not to say
that he had ever travelled extensively to any great extent but he was
at heart a born adventurer though by a trick of fate he had
consistently remained a landlubber except you call going to Holyhead
which was his longest. God save Leopold the First!

ALL: God save Leopold the First!

BLOOM: _(In dalmatic and purple mantle, to the bishop of Down and
Connor, with dignity. )_

KITTY: _(Hiccups again with a kick of her horsed foot. Not such damn fools. On
yonder river. Fine!
Got a prime pair of mincepies, no kid. THE HONOURABLE MRS MERVYN TALBOYS: _(In amazon costume, hard hat,
jackboots cockspurred, vermilion waistcoat, fawn musketeer gauntlets
with braided drums, long train held up and hunting crop with which she
strikes her welt constantly. His wallface frowned weakly. )_ All
insanity. _

Ghoul! Chewer of corpses!

No, mother! Let me be and let me live. Such is life in an outhouse. —That’s a lovely morning, sir, she said. In. Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Love me not. Now that’s really a coincidence: second time. Absence of body. Convert Dr William J. BLOOM: Granpapachi. The silent lechers turn to pay the jarvey. By
Bassi’s blessed virgins Bloom’s dark eyes went by. The
honourable Mrs and Brutus is an honourable man. Keep in condition. A woman’s voice behind the dingy curtain. _(Davy Stephens, ringletted, passes with a bevy of barefoot newsboys. What tributes his?

Honour and gifts of strangers, the friends of Everyman. I was confirmed by the bishop and enrolled in
the brown scapular. _Liliata
rutilantium te confessorum turma circumdet: iubilantium te virginum
chorus excipiat. She is right, our
sister. And Alf was telling us there was one chap sent in a mourning card with
a black border round it. What’s bred in the bone cannot fail me to fly
And Olivet’s breezy. To improve the shining hour he wondered whether he
might meet with anything approaching the same luck as Mr Philip Beaufoy
if taken down in writing suppose he were to pen something out of the
common groove (as he fully intended doing) at the rate of one guinea
per column. Hock in green glasses. Or, please allow me. Who was it told me his name? _(His lawnmower begins to
purr. My belief is, to tell you the candid truth, that those bits were
genuine forgeries all of them put in by monks most probably or it’s the
big question of our national poet over again, who precisely wrote them
like _Hamlet_ and Bacon, as, you who know your Shakespeare infinitely
better than I, of course I needn’t tell you. Bend, see my face there, dark
mirror, breathe on it, stirs. Leave ye fraction of bread to
them that live by bread alone. One life is all. As I look to be saved I had it from my Kitty who has been
wardmaid there any time these seven months. —Ah, God, Corley replied, sure I couldn’t teach in a school, man. )_ Rorke’s Drift! Up, guards, and at
them! Mahar shalal hashbaz. Born courtesan. Bovril, by
James. Our Saviour: beardframed oval face: talking in the dusk. Stephen raised his eyes to the bold unheeding stare. )_ Immense! Most bloody
awful demirep!

STEPHEN: _Et exaltabuntur cornua iusti. And humanely his driver waited till he (or she)
had ended, patient in his scythed car. _(She sneers. KITTY: No, me. Give you the creeps after a bit. Pain, that was not yet the pain of love, fretted his heart. Then they trot you out some kind of a nondescript,
wouldn’t know what to call her. Who’s that with you? I saw him a few times in the Bleeding Horse
in Camden street with Boylan, the billsticker. First kiss does the trick. That worthy picking up the scent of the fagend of the song or words
growled in wouldbe music but with great vim some kind of chanty or
other in seconds or thirds. _Amours_ of actresses. The
queer suddenly things he popped out with attracted the elder man who
was several years the other’s senior or like his father but something
substantial he certainly ought to eat even were it only an eggflip made
on unadulterated maternal nutriment or, failing that, the homely Humpty
Dumpty boiled. I wrote last night to Mr Field,
M. _Hamlet
ou
Le Distrait
Pièce de Shakespeare_


He repeated to John Eglinton’s newgathered frown:

—_Pièce de Shakespeare_, don’t you know. A
stout fox, drawn from covert, brush pointed, having buried his
grandmother, runs swift for the open, brighteyed, seeking badger earth,
under the leaves. Now if he
got paralysed there and no-one knew how to stop them they’d clank on
and on the same, print it over and over and up and back. On Dignam
now. How is Molly those times? Haven’t seen her for
ages. —Stone ginger, Davy Byrne added civilly. He sucks a red jujube. He tore away half the prize story sharply and wiped himself with it. )_ Do you want three girls? It’s ten shillings here. The Irishman’s house is his coffin. Was there one point on which their views were equal and negative?

The influence of gaslight or electric light on the growth of adjoining
paraheliotropic trees. Good idea the repetition. What?

Will? You? I. Well, tolloll. Dirty cleans. Some animal. Neck. Bloom’s bodyguard distribute Maundy money,
commemoration medals, loaves and fishes, temperance badges, expensive
Henry Clay cigars, free cowbones for soup, rubber preservatives in
sealed envelopes tied with gold thread, butter scotch, pineapple rock,_
billets doux _in the form of cocked hats, readymade suits, porringers
of toad in the hole, bottles of Jeyes’ Fluid, purchase stamps, 40 days’
indulgences, spurious coins, dairyfed pork sausages, theatre passes,
season tickets available for all tramlines, coupons of the royal and
privileged Hungarian lottery, penny dinner counters, cheap reprints of
the World’s Twelve Worst Books: Froggy And Fritz (politic), Care of the
Baby (infantilic), 50 Meals for 7/6 (culinic), Was Jesus a Sun Myth?
(historic), Expel that Pain (medic), Infant’s Compendium of the
Universe (cosmic), Let’s All Chortle (hilaric), Canvasser’s Vade Mecum
(journalic), Loveletters of Mother Assistant (erotic), Who’s Who in
Space (astric), Songs that Reached Our Heart (melodic), Pennywise’s Way
to Wealth (parsimonic). _(The freedom of the city is presented to him embodied in a charter. Will you ever forget his goggle eye?

Miss Douce chimed in in deep bronze laughter, shouting:

—And your other eye!

Bloowhose dark eye read Aaron Figatner’s name. If they could run like rossies she could sit so she said she
could see from where she was. I put a mark in it. Yet a chance
word will call them forth suddenly and they will rise up to confront
him in the most various circumstances, a vision or a dream, or while
timbrel and harp soothe his senses or amid the cool silver tranquility
of the evening or at the feast, at midnight, when he is now filled with
wine. He is about to have a baby. Everyone according to his needs or everyone according
to his deeds. Persist. J. She could without difficulty, he said, have posed for
the ensemble, not to dwell on certain opulent curves of the. Law of falling bodies: per second per second. Unwell in his abominable
regions. But he was undeniably handsome with an
exquisite nose and he was what he looked, every inch a gentleman, the
shape of his head too at the back without his cap on that she would
know anywhere something off the common and the way he turned the
bicycle at the lamp with his hands off the bars and also the nice
perfume of those good cigarettes and besides they were both of a size
too he and she and that was why Edy Boardman thought she was so
frightfully clever because he didn’t go and ride up and down in front
of her bit of a garden. —A hard one, sir. Wonderful entirely. Mr Cowe Conacre: Has the right honourable gentleman’s famous
Mitchelstown telegram inspired the policy of gentlemen on the Treasury
bench? (O! O!)

Mr Allfours: I must have notice of that question. What time?

A photo it isn’t. Expresses nothing. —There was a girl in the case, Mr Bloom began, and he determined to
send him to the Isle of Man out of harm’s way but when they were
both. Canvassing for death. _(He laughs loudly. The sweet creature
turned all colours in her confusion, feigning to reprove a slight
disorder in her dress: a slip of underwood clung there for the very
trees adore her. This very moment. Feel no more. )_ We don’t
want any scandal, you understand. The simple pleasures of the poor. He himself?

Buck Mulligan slung his towel stolewise round his neck and, bending in
loose laughter, said to Stephen’s ear:

—O, shade of Kinch the elder! Japhet in search of a father!

—We’re always tired in the morning, Stephen said to Haines. _

Some of that old sacred music splendid. Wait. —If you will be so kind then, the clergyman said, the next time to
allow me perhaps. E. You. Start afresh. Three we have. g. BLOOM: She counterassaulted. Beware of what you wish for in youth because you
will get it in middle life. Wonderful really. My heart’s broke eating dripping. BLOOM: _(In workman’s corduroy overalls, black gansy with red floating
tie and apache cap. Taree tara. Lenehan announced gladly:

—_The Rose of Castile_. Can’t see it. Two discs on the columns wobble, eyes of nought. Those were millions of human souls created by God in
His Own likeness to whom the faith had not (D. Handicapped as he was by lack of poundage, Dublin’s pet lamb made up
for it by superlative skill in ringcraft. Try a bit. KITTY: No!

ZOE: _(Explodes in laughter. He drank. Did the host encourage his guest to chant in a modulated voice a
strange legend on an allied theme?

Reassuringly, their place, where none could hear them talk, being
secluded, reassured, the decocted beverages, allowing for subsolid
residual sediment of a mechanical mixture, water plus sugar plus cream
plus cocoa, having been consumed. Henry Menton, solr, Martin Cunningham, John
Power, eatondph 1/8 ador dorador douradora_ (must be where he called
Monks the dayfather about Keyes’s ad) _Thomas Kernan, Simon Dedalus,
Stephen Dedalus B. Quite apart from
that he disliked those careers of wrongdoing and crime on principle. Some light still. Haven’t
seen you for a month of Sundays. Who knows is that true about the
woman he keeps? Not pleasant for the wife. He held the page aslant patiently, bending his
senses and his will, his soft subject gaze at rest. Good. Widower I hate to
see. Can you recall the
boats?

Our _soi-disant_ sailor munched heavily awhile hungrily before
answering:

—I’m tired of all them rocks in the sea, he said, and boats and ships. Betting 5
to 4 on _Zinfandel_, 20 to 1 _Throwaway_ (off). They grab wafers between which
are wedged lumps of coral and copper snow. Blazes Boylan and Lenehan sprawl swaying on the
sideseats. Forth from the skirt of his coat Mr Dedalus brought
pouch and pipe. You will be
laced with cruel force into vicelike corsets of soft dove coutille with
whalebone busk to the diamondtrimmed pelvis, the absolute outside edge,
while your figure, plumper than when at large, will be restrained in
nettight frocks, pretty two ounce petticoats and fringes and things
stamped, of course, with my houseflag, creations of lovely lingerie for
Alice and nice scent for Alice. Prove that he had loved rectitude from his earliest youth. You must
believe. Death, that is. —I’m sorry, he said. Work
Hynes and Crawford. Mistake to hit back. He stood aside watching their blind masks pass down the aisle, one by
one, and seek their places. The young gentleman, his friend, overjoyed as he was at a
passage that had late befallen him, could not forbear to tell it his
nearest neighbour. Yous join uz, dear sir? No hentrusion in life. Drummond of Hawthornden helped you at that stile. In sleep she went to him. Excuse bad writing am in hurry. Keys: like Keyes’s ad: no fear of anyone getting out. Hee hee. She ought to. )_ Dedalus! Give her your blessing for
me. Time will be gone then. The visible signs of antesatisfaction?

An approximate erection: a solicitous adversion: a gradual elevation: a
tentative revelation: a silent contemplation. —And how is that _basso profondo_, Benjamin? Father Cowley asked. Want to keep your weathereye open. Too much bone in their skulls. Pass
by her. and E. The voice of dark age, of unlove, earth’s fatigue made grave approach
and painful, come from afar, from hoary mountains, called on good men
and true. Stop. On the other hand what incensed him more inwardly was the blatant jokes
of the cabman and so on who passed it all off as a jest, laughing
immoderately, pretending to understand everything, the why and the
wherefore, and in reality not knowing their own minds, it being a case
for the two parties themselves unless it ensued that the legitimate
husband happened to be a party to it owing to some anonymous letter
from the usual boy Jones, who happened to come across them at the
crucial moment in a loving position locked in one another’s arms,
drawing attention to their illicit proceedings and leading up to a
domestic rumpus and the erring fair one begging forgiveness of her lord
and master upon her knees and promising to sever the connection and not
receive his visits any more if only the aggrieved husband would
overlook the matter and let bygones be bygones with tears in her eyes
though possibly with her tongue in her fair cheek at the same time as
quite possibly there were several others. PRIVATE COMPTON: _(Waves the crowd back. Paper. —How many have you for tomorrow? the caretaker asked. —God! he said quietly. Twelve grammes one pennyweight. He held out his copybook. The glow leaps again. The cold smell of sacred stone called him. Shake hands. His pace slackened. —He will have it that _Hamlet_ is a ghoststory, John Eglinton said for
Mr Best’s behoof. Yea, on the word of a Bloom, ye
shall ere long enter into the golden city which is to be, the new
Bloomusalem in the Nova Hibernia of the future. )_ Ho ho ho ho. No grace for the carver. Dew falling. She
could almost see the swift answering flash of admiration in his eyes
that set her tingling in every nerve. No-one here to hear. Ignatius Loyola, make haste to help me!

—The play begins. Stephen, an elbow rested on the jagged granite, leaned his palm against
his brow and gazed at the fraying edge of his shiny black coat-sleeve. They examine him curiously from under their pencilled brows and smile
to his hasty bow. It having become necessary for him
to unfurl a reef the sailor vacated his seat. Will I tell him that horse Lenehan? He knows already. End it peacefully. Yet that man’s father was his grandfather’s son. Safe home to
Dolly. Of
Israel’s folk was that man that on earth wandering far had fared. Mary, Martha. Yes, we seem
to be forgetting her as Shakespeare himself forgot her. They are waiting for him now. I feel Hamlet quite young. Hold hard!

He put on his glasses and gazed towards the metal bridge an instant. What first reminiscence had he of Rudolph Bloom (deceased)?

Rudolph Bloom (deceased) narrated to his son Leopold Bloom (aged 6) a
retrospective arrangement of migrations and settlements in and between
Dublin, London, Florence, Milan, Vienna, Budapest, Szombathely with
statements of satisfaction (his grandfather having seen Maria Theresia,
empress of Austria, queen of Hungary), with commercial advice (having
taken care of pence, the pounds having taken care of themselves). He drank needless to be told and it pointed
only once more a moral when he might quite easily be in a large way of
business if—a big if, however—he had contrived to cure himself of his
particular partiality. Mezzo sovrano più. They’re not straight men of business either. HOUSE OF KEY(E)S


—Like that, see. Tap. _ Our native Doric. R. Call the woman Driscoll. _

—What have you there? Stephen asked. Nookshotten. Differently,
because of different possible returns to the inhabitants or to the
habitation. Rudy. Eaten a bad egg. Fabled by the daughters of memory. Watch! Watch! Silk flash rich stockings white. )_

STEPHEN: _(To himself. After an interval Mr Dedalus raised his grog and

—That must have been highly diverting, said he. Tom Rochford nodded and drank. Dear, dear, dear. J. and S. Mr Bloom walked on again easily, seeing ahead of him in sunlight the
tight skullpiece, the dangling stickumbrelladustcoat. Sadly she twined in sauntering gold hair behind a curving ear. And bring us some scones and
butter and some cakes as well. I am dead. )_ Sst! Come here till I tell
you. Bous Stephanoumenos. Insert long round end. )_

ZOE: I’m giddy!

_(She frees herself, droops on a chair. _(A panel of fog rolls back rapidly, revealing rapidly in the jurybox
the faces of Martin Cunningham, foreman, silkhatted, Jack Power, Simon
Dedalus, Tom Kernan, Ned Lambert, John Henry Menton, Myles Crawford,
Lenehan, Paddy Leonard, Nosey Flynn, M’Coy and the featureless face of
a Nameless One. Careless
stand of her with her hands in those patch pockets. Day by day: night by night:
lifted, flooded and let fall. See ourselves as others see us. Beside her a
camel, hooded with a turreting turban, waits. Wonder is
nurse Callan there still. _

FLORRY: Sing us something. Do you know anything about Pyrrhus?

A bag of figrolls lay snugly in Armstrong’s satchel. I knew there was something on my mind. Looking away now. Widowhood not the thing since the old queen died. )_ Piffpaff! Popo!
_(He stops, sneezes. _(A deafmute idiot with goggle eyes, his shapeless mouth dribbling,
jerks past, shaken in Saint Vitus’ dance. There sleep the mighty dead as
in life they slept, warriors and princes of high renown. I’ve a car round there. Israel is
weak and few are her children: Egypt is an host and terrible are her
arms. The other: a slender splayfoot chair of glossy cane
curves, placed directly opposite the former, its frame from top to seat
and from seat to base being varnished dark brown, its seat being a
bright circle of white plaited rush. And they will spit in
your ten shilling brass fender from Hampton Leedom’s. —That was exceedingly naughty of you, Mr Dedalus told her and pressed
her hand indulgently. J. The
images of other males of his blood will repel him. )_ It’s a damnably foul lie, showing the moral
rottenness of the man! _(He extends his portfolio. ZOE: Mount of the moon. All
raised untidy caps. Hushaby. )
from Martha Clifford (find M. C. Furthermore, silly Milly, she
dreamed of having had an unspoken unremembered conversation with a
horse whose name had been Joseph to whom (which) she had offered a
tumblerful of lemonade which it (he) had appeared to have accepted (cf
hearthdreaming cat). Husband rolling in drunk, stink of pub off him like a polecat. Idea for a poison mystery. Is the boss. The cavalcade passed out by the lower gate of Phoenix park saluted by
obsequious policemen and proceeded past Kingsbridge along the northern
quays. _(The fleeing
nymph raises a keen. Die, dog. —Is the brother with you, Malachi?

—Down in Westmeath. Cordelia. Their green and gold
beaconjars too heavy to stir. —Decent little soul he was, Mr Power said to the stalwart back of long
John Fanning ascending towards long John Fanning in the mirror. )_

BLOOM: Wildgoose chase this. For Helen, the runaway wife of
Menelaus, ten years the Greeks. A door on the return landing is
flung open. Man’s head found in a garden. He moved
a doll’s head to and fro, the brims of his Panama hat quivering, and
began to chant in a quiet happy foolish voice:

_—I’m the queerest young fellow that ever you heard. No longer is Leopold, as he sits there, ruminating, chewing
the cud of reminiscence, that staid agent of publicity and holder of a
modest substance in the funds. Well, well. I can throw my cap at who I like because it’s leap year. Come. Mullingar. Two old trickies, what?

—But they are afraid the pillar will fall, Stephen went on. We. The policeman touched his forehead. )_ After you is good manners. And me now. What were Stephen’s and Bloom’s quasisimultaneous volitional
quasisensations of concealed identities?

Visually, Stephen’s: The traditional figure of hypostasis, depicted by
Johannes Damascenus, Lentulus Romanus and Epiphanius Monachus as
leucodermic, sesquipedalian with winedark hair. There’s the sun again coming
out. P. E. —O please do, sir. ; the rev. Now I am defunct, the wall of the heart hypertrophied. Want to be careful. Religions. What have I learned? Of them? Of me?

Walk like Haines now. Because the acoustics, the
resonance changes according as the weight of the water is equal to the
law of falling water. 1. Try it on the dog first. I want to show
you the new beauty Rock has for a bailiff. She understands all she wants to. Still he was a courteous
old chap. )_ My body. Our Saviour. —Lo, Joe, says I. Three months’ renewal. Lay me in my native earth. Zoo. )_ Here, none of your tall talk. Very hard to bargain with that sort of a woman. _

Prrprr. Now that’s quite enough about that. _ Lir’s loneliest daughter. Wouldn’t trouble only I was expecting some money. _(With pathos. Explain the swansong too wherein
he has commended her to posterity. p: up. That
archduke Leopold was it no yes or was it Otto one of those Habsburgs?
Or who was it used to eat the scruff off his own head? Cheapest lunch
in town. )_ Now, don’t tell a big fib! I know
somebody won’t like that. Fits me down to the ground. )_

BLOOM: Molly!

MARION: Welly? Mrs Marion from this out, my dear man, when you speak to
me. Tonguetied sons of bastards’ ghosts. Love
one another. )_ Come on, boys! Wriggle it, girls!

THE CITIZEN: _(Choked with emotion, brushes aside a tear in his emerald
muffler. Two. Damn your lithia water. He strolled out of the postoffice and turned to the right. Solitary. You will see my ghost after death. Sound as a bell. —Ah, poor dogsbody! he said in a kind voice. Must get that Capel street library book renewed or they’ll write to
Kearney, my guarantor. By what reflections did he, a conscious reactor against the void of
incertitude, justify to himself his sentiments?

The preordained frangibility of the hymen: the presupposed
intangibility of the thing in itself: the incongruity and disproportion
between the selfprolonging tension of the thing proposed to be done and
the selfabbreviating relaxation of the thing done: the fallaciously
inferred debility of the female: the muscularity of the male: the
variations of ethical codes: the natural grammatical transition by
inversion involving no alteration of sense of an aorist preterite
proposition (parsed as masculine subject, monosyllabic onomatopoeic
transitive verb with direct feminine object) from the active voice into
its correlative aorist preterite proposition (parsed as feminine
subject, auxiliary verb and quasimonosyllabic onomatopoeic past
participle with complementary masculine agent) in the passive voice:
the continued product of seminators by generation: the continual
production of semen by distillation: the futility of triumph or protest
or vindication: the inanity of extolled virtue: the lethargy of
nescient matter: the apathy of the stars. The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Poor papa! How he used to talk of Kate Bateman in
that. Careless air: just drop in to see. Had he performed any special corporal work of mercy for her?

He had sometimes propelled her on warm summer evenings, an infirm widow
of independent, if limited, means, in her convalescent bathchair with
slow revolutions of its wheels as far as the corner of the North
Circular road opposite Mr Gavin Low’s place of business where she had
remained for a certain time scanning through his onelensed binocular
fieldglasses unrecognisable citizens on tramcars, roadster bicycles
equipped with inflated pneumatic tyres, hackney carriages, tandems,
private and hired landaus, dogcarts, ponytraps and brakes passing from
the city to the Phoenix Park and _vice versa_. Seven dwarf simian acolytes, also in red, cardinal sins, uphold his
train, peeping under it. Calculate when it burns out and you receive
gratis 1 pair of our special non-compo boots, guaranteed 1 candle
power. If you can put your five fingers through
it it is a gate, if not a door. _Freeman’s Urinal_ and _Weekly Arsewipe_ here. Marble could give the original,
shoulders, back, all the symmetry, all the rest. I am in his son. Ca’ canny. ZOE: And more’s mother? _(She pats him offhandedly with velvet paws. Well met they were, said Master Dixon, joyed,
but, harkee, young sir, better were they named Beau Mount and Lecher
for, by my troth, of such a mingling much might come. The cords of all link back,
strandentwining cable of all flesh. Pig
God! He had two left feet. Hasn’t your landlord distrained for rent?

—He has, Father Cowley said. Lotty Clarke,
flaxenhaired, I saw at her night toilette through illclosed curtains
with poor papa’s operaglasses: The wanton ate grass wildly. His vocation:
Mickey Rooney’s band. Wireless
intercontinental and interplanetary transmitters are set for reception
of message. Good job it wasn’t farther south. —Aw! he said. With
your tooraloom tooraloom. Before. Pessach. He will never
capture the Attic note. —Dignam, Mr Bloom said. I mean as your business menagerer. He smiled at bronze’s teabathed lips, at listening lips and eyes:

—The _élite_ of Erin hung upon his lips. Thanks, old chap: much obliged. Ursula with eleven thousand virgins. The thrill they itch for. Too much John Barleycorn. To wipe away a tear for martyrs that want
to, dying to, die. Steadfast John replied severe:

—The doctor can tell us what those words mean. —I’ll see him now in the Ormond, Lenehan said, and sound him. Me have a nice pace. Read them. Take the train there tomorrow. —What’s that? says Joe. _Mais bien
sûr_, noble stranger, said he cheerily, _et mille compliments_. Yes, quite true. A. Big blaze. A counterjumper’s
son. Then the screen round her bed for her to die. J. Mackey (Limited) wholesale and retail seed and bulb merchants and
nurserymen, agents for chemical manures, 23 Sackville street, upper),
an orchard, kitchen garden and vinery, protected against illegal
trespassers by glasstopped mural enclosures, a lumbershed with padlock
for various inventoried implements. —Hope so, says Ned. One of the old sweet songs. Pallbearers, gold reins, requiem mass, firing a volley. Other dying every second. Hate. )_
Hurray for the High School!

THE ECHO: Fool!

THE YEWS: _(Rustling. Australians they must be this time of year. Very large and wonderful and keeps famous time. I know the voice. ter in die. R. Shy, supping
with the godless, he sneaks the cup. Encouraged by this use of
her christian name she kissed passionately all the various suitable
areas of his person which the decencies of prison garb permitted her
ardour to reach. Calmer now. I could have helped him on in life. Him, then
Cranly, Mulligan: now these. The shadows of the mosques among
the pillars: priest with a scroll rolled up. Heigho! Heigho!
     Heigho! Heigho!
     Heigho! Heigho!

Quarter to. It’s all the same. Blazes Boylan rattled merry money in his trousers’ pocket. d. —Friend of yours, says Alf. Can become ideal winter
sanatorium. I bear a respectable
character and was four months in my last place. ITALIA, MAGISTRA ARTIUM


—He spoke on the law of evidence, J. Skin tanned raw. _

—His own image to a man with that queer thing genius is the standard of
all experience, material and moral. —That cursed dyspepsia, he said before drinking. Hynes jotting down something in his notebook. )_ Hik! Hek! Hak! Hok! Huk! Kok!
Kuk!

_(Ben Jumbo Dollard, rubicund, musclebound, hairynostrilled,
hugebearded, cabbageeared, shaggychested, shockmaned, fatpapped, stands
forth, his loins and genitals tightened into a pair of black bathing
bagslops. Bath a most private thing. He is sitting in their house, talking. Pirouette! The
_Mater Misericordiae_. )_ And under Ballybough bridge?

A HOLLYBUSH: And in the devil’s glen?

BLOOM: _(Blushes furiously all over from frons to nates, three tears
falling from his left eye. He was in Mrs
Cohen’s. Too showy. Bury him cheap in a
whatyoumaycall. —What’s that? his sharp voice said. D. Con. ) Carré! Avant deux!_ Breathe
evenly! _Balance!_

_(The morning and noon hours waltz in their places, turning, advancing
to each other, shaping their curves, bowing visavis. Uff! Ooo! Mind!

Testily he made room for himself beside long John Fanning’s flank and
passed in and up the stairs. Smile. Keeper
won’t see. No, she couldn’t say. Gabble of geese. Bore this funeral affair. _It grew bigger and bigger and bigger_. Racing card!
     Ten to one the field!
     Tommy on the clay here! Tommy on the clay!
     Ten to one bar one! Ten to one bar one!
     Try your luck on Spinning Jenny!
     Ten to one bar one!
     Sell the monkey, boys! Sell the monkey!
     I’ll give ten to one!
     Ten to one bar one!

_(A dark horse, riderless, bolts like a phantom past the winningpost,
his mane moonfoaming, his eyeballs stars. Near:
far. Make their own use of everything. Hot
members they were all of them, the Geraldines. Lamentations. This
therefore was the reason why the still comparatively young though
dissolute man who now addressed Stephen was spoken of by some with
facetious proclivities as Lord John Corley. _(He sighs and
stretches himself, then murmurs thickly with prolonged vowels. Out of her clothes somewhere:
pinned together. They appear on a redcarpeted staircase adorned with expensive
plants. To pour o’er sluices pouring gushes. I know his face. Mr Bloom
came last folding his paper again into his pocket. Evening will find itself. )_ Here, to buy yourself a gin and
splash. Could you try your hand
at it yourself?

_—And it seemed to me that I heard the voice of that Egyptian
highpriest raised in a tone of like haughtiness and like pride. He himself, my lord, is a physical wreck from
cobbler’s weak chest. Cockcock. The
sentimentalist is he who would enjoy without incurring the immense
debtorship for a thing done. They are not in my
dictionary. Mr Dedalus nodded, looking out. Martha, Mary. The eternal
question of the life connubial, needless to say, cropped up. And he ups with his pint to wet his whistle. —Only one, says Martin. —Ruling passion strong in death, says Joe, as someone said. Barmaids too. —Certainly, certainly, certainly. If you fall don’t wait to get up. _(With a cry of stormbirds. You’ll pull it out somewhere
and lose it. )_

THE PIANOLA:

     Two young fellows were talking about their girls, girls, girls,
     Sweethearts they’d left behind. Ow. Good puzzle would be cross Dublin
without passing a pub. We were never
loyal to the successful. Children. Stephen Dedalus stepped up, followed him wearily
halfway and sat down on the edge of the gunrest, watching him still as
he propped his mirror on the parapet, dipped the brush in the bowl and
lathered cheeks and neck. _The Stark-Munro Letters_ by A. Welts of flesh behind on him. They put on their bonnets and best clothes and take their
umbrellas for fear it may come on to rain. If I had poor
luck with Bass’s mare perhaps this draught of his may serve me more
propensely. Streams of tendency and eons they worship. They say it’s healthier. _Is it Paddy Dignam_? I said. The _New York World_ cabled for a
special. Steered by his rapier, he glides to
the door, his wild harp slung behind him. For many happy returns. BELLA: None of that here. I am big with
child. It sounds nobler than
British or Brixton. Yes, sir. )_

THE WREATHS: Sweet are the sweets. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. _(Lieutenant Myers of the Dublin Fire Brigade by general request sets
fire to Bloom. Polygamy. The cup that cheers but not inebriates, as the old saying
has it. Crusted
toenails too. Two deeds are rank in that ghost’s mind: a broken vow and the
dullbrained yokel on whom her favour has declined, deceased husband’s
brother. Am I a father? If I were?

Shrunken uncertain hand. This is the postcreation. A tiny coffin flashed by. No
son. )_ Here. Peep
at his wearables. The voice of penance and of grief came slow, embellished, tremulous. BLOOM: You understood them?

THE YEWS: Ssh!

THE NYMPH: _(Covers her face with her hands. Lycopodium. Like a few olives too if they had them. See ye here. He’s a cross between
Lobengula and Lynchehaun. —What’s this her name was? A buxom lassy. Wandered far
away over all the earth, captivity to captivity, multiplying, dying,
being born everywhere. Her beam is broad. , alone,
in the protestant church of Saint Nicholas Without, Coombe, by James
O’Connor, Philip Gilligan and James Fitzpatrick, together, under a pump
in the village of Swords, and by the reverend Charles Malone C. _(His Honour, sir Frederick Falkiner, recorder of Dublin, in judicial
garb of grey stone rises from the bench, stonebearded. Girl there civil. Contradiction. Holy water that was, I expect. God,
we’ll simply have to dress the character. And heroes voyage from afar to woo them, from Eblana to
Slievemargy, the peerless princes of unfettered Munster and of Connacht
the just and of smooth sleek Leinster and of Cruachan’s land and of
Armagh the splendid and of the noble district of Boyle, princes, the
sons of kings. He threw it. Kalipedia, he prophesied,
would soon be generally adopted and all the graces of life, genuinely
good music, agreeable literature, light philosophy, instructive
pictures, plastercast reproductions of the classical statues such as
Venus and Apollo, artistic coloured photographs of prize babies, all
these little attentions would enable ladies who were in a particular
condition to pass the intervening months in a most enjoyable manner. —Ten thousand pounds, says Alf, laughing. Always the same, year after year. Give the paw. I called you naughty boy because I do not
like. Strong curtain. who’s touching it?. )_ Two, three, Mars,
that’s courage. Tap. Occupy her. org

Section 3. The most vulnerable point
too of tender Achilles. From the hoardings Mr Eugene Stratton grimaced with thick niggerlips at
Father Conmee. Their character. No. PRIVATE COMPTON: Say! What price the sergeantmajor?

PRIVATE CARR: Bennett? He’s my pal. Primrosevested he greeted gaily with his doffed Panama as with a
bauble. Come upstairs for goodness’ sake
till I sit down somewhere. And as he stepped fussily back across the field his old man’s voice
cried sternly:

—What is the matter? What is it now?

Their sharp voices cried about him on all sides: their many forms
closed round him, the garish sunshine bleaching the honey of his
illdyed head. To hell with the bloody brutal
Sassenachs and their _patois. Certainly seems to me I don’t never see no wusser scared female than
the way you been, Miss Florry, just now as I done seed you. BLOOM: _(Over Stephen’s shoulder. Father Conmee greeted them more than once benignly. A little time. Those succulent bivalves
may help us and the truffles of Perigord, tubers dislodged through
mister omnivorous porker, were unsurpassed in cases of nervous debility
or viragitis. Jingling. Flushed less, still less, goldenly paled. Sad too. Shout a
few flying syllables as they pass. Woodshadows floated silently by through the morning peace from the
stairhead seaward where he gazed. Poisons the only cures. Dictates of common sense. —Still it’s solid food, his good genius urged, I’m a stickler for solid
food, his one and only reason being not gormandising in the least but
regular meals as the _sine qua non_ for any kind of proper work, mental
or manual. —The weather is changing, he said quietly. Coincidence I just happened to be in the Kildare
street museum today, shortly prior to our meeting if I can so call it,
and I was just looking at those antique statues there. Call: no answer. Green Chartreuse. Oaths of a man roar,
mutter, cease. —Not to mention another membrane, Father Cowley added. What is this? Eighth and ninth book of
Moses. A lot of money he spent
colouring it. _(He clacks his tongue loudly. Anemic a
little. , F. Heads bandaged. Peeping Tom. Dost envy Darby Dullman there with his Joan? A
canting jay and a rheumeyed curdog is all their progeny. A brief cold blaze shone from her eyes that spoke volumes of scorn
immeasurable. We are getting mixed. )_

THE SLUTS AND RAGAMUFFINS: _(Screaming. He read where his finger opened. The apple of discord was a certain castle of sand
which Master Jacky had built and Master Tommy would have it right go
wrong that it was to be architecturally improved by a frontdoor like
the Martello tower had. —It, Simon. What two phenomena of senescence were more frequent?

The myopic digital calculation of coins, eructation consequent upon
repletion. e. He strode away from them towards the window. Ah, alluring. Will she? Watch! Watch! See! Looked round. The phosphorescence, that bluey greeny. Sloping into the Empire. Good
Lord, what became of him?

A seventh gravedigger came beside Mr Bloom to take up an idle spade. Barbara and S. 1. Give you the needle that would. He held the page from him: interesting:
read it nearer, the title, the blurred cropping cattle, the page
rustling. It gets brown after. Into the. Pennyweight of powder in a skull. A great opportunity there certainly
was for push and enterprise to meet the travelling needs of the public
at large, the average man, i. A form sprawled against a dustbin and
muffled by its arm and hat snores, groans, grinding growling teeth, and
snores again. Notes chirruping
answer. Today. King to tower. —And I belong to a race too, says Bloom, that is hated and persecuted. One, two. If you allow me. A week ago she lay ill, four days on the couch, but
today she was free, blithe, mocked at peril. Another then put in his
word: And they dressed him, says he, in a point shift and petticoat
with a tippet and girdle and ruffles on his wrists and clipped his
forelock and rubbed him all over with spermacetic oil and built stables
for him at every turn of the road with a gold manger in each full of
the best hay in the market so that he could doss and dung to his
heart’s content. —Bloom, he said, Madame Marion Tweedy that was, is, I mean, the
soprano. You
don’t want a scandal. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1. Partly, I have mislaid. John Eglinton looked in the tangled glowworm of his lamp. So he was. —Prrwht! Paddy Leonard said with scorn. Hauding Sara by the wame. He’d give the ad, I think. What is the age of the soul of man? As she hath the virtue of the
chameleon to change her hue at every new approach, to be gay with the
merry and mournful with the downcast, so too is her age changeable as
her mood. S. )_ Blue eyes beauty I’ll read your hand. Want to try in the dark to
see. _(Loudly. Strike me silly, said Costello, a low fellow who was fuddled. Me see. Tommy Caffrey scrambles to a gaslamp and, clasping, climbs
in spasms. —Is that a fact?

—Didn’t he, miss Kennedy? The real classical, you know. Course they were on
the wrong side. Gemini. You’ll meet with a. —Very well, indeed, father. s. She curtseyed and went out, followed by Buck Mulligan’s tender chant:

_—Heart of my heart, were it more,

More would be laid at your feet. The tentacles. Love your neighbour. Briefly, as well as I can bring them to mind, his words were these. His seacold eyes looked on the empty bay: it seems
history is to blame: on me and on my words, unhating. Drunken ranters what
I said about his God made him wince. She loved to read poetry and when she got a
keepsake from Bertha Supple of that lovely confession album with the
coralpink cover to write her thoughts in she laid it in the drawer of
her toilettable which, though it did not err on the side of luxury, was
scrupulously neat and clean. Kevin and S. You
won’t get a virgin in the flash houses. _Our lovely land_. _)

THE BELLS: Haltyaltyaltyall. B. Trust? Bread cast on the
waters. Mr Dedalus placed his hands on them and
held them back. There is no-one in Dublin
would lend me fourpence. Quite right. —_En ventre sa mère_, says J. Slipping his words deftly into the pauses of the clanking he drew
swiftly on the scarred woodwork. The porter hoisted the valise up on the well. That lotion, remember. It reminds me of Roman history. Let Him take me whenever He likes. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You cannot eat your cake
and have it. J. All most too new call is lost in
all. Country roads. —O my! Puddeny pie! protested Ciss. Stuck, the flies buzzed. O! Exhausted that female has me. God speed. )_ Say! What was the most revolting piece of
obscenity in all your career of crime? Go the whole hog. Was he oysters old fish at table perhaps he young flesh in bed
no June has no ar no oysters. All a bit touched. But the funny part is. Phew!
Dreadful simply! Child’s head too big: forceps. Well? I can break them in this instant
if I will. A laugh tripped over his lips. Could make a kind of pun on that. —A learner rather, Stephen said. Tight boots? No. The navvy, lurching
by, gores him with his flaming pronghorn. —O, Father Dineen! Directly. —The idea, Mr Bloom said, is the house of keys. Their eyes grew bigger as the lines were repeated. _(Earnestly. The foreman moved his pencil towards it. Too many drugs spoil the broth. Bloom, in gloom, looms down. I wouldn’t be surprised if it was that
kind of food you see produces the like waves of the brain the poetical. —I have no money but if you will lend me your attention I shall
endeavour to sing to you of a heart bowed down. Combine business with pleasure. THE FAN: _(Points downwards quickly. He looks
down on Stephen’s face and form. p: up, she said. Yes, a disappointed bridge. Mr Bloom effaced the letters with his slow boot. No trouble. Do. _

And he laid his hands upon that he blessed and gave thanks and he
prayed and they all with him prayed:

—_Deus, cuius verbo sanctificantur omnia, benedictionem tuam effunde
super creaturas istas: et praesta ut quisquis eis secundum legem et
voluntatem Tuam cum gratiarum actione usus fuerit per invocationem
sanctissimi nominis Tui corporis sanitatem et animæ tutelam Te auctore
percipiat per Christum Dominum nostrum. _ Still you can hear. Hello, Bloom, says he, what will you
have?

So they started arguing about the point, Bloom saying he wouldn’t and
he couldn’t and excuse him no offence and all to that and then he said
well he’d just take a cigar. Wait. —Thank you very much, Mr Russell, Stephen said, rising. An old plumber named Geraghty. He came towards
them at an amble, scratching actively behind his coattails. —Do you tell me so? Davy Byrne said. —Then I’ll get the design, Mr Nannetti, he said, and you’ll give it a
good place I know. CORNY KELLEHER: _(Nudges the second watch. Love me. Chuckingout time. No: she wouldn’t like that much. C. Jest on. Nine lives are taken off for his father’s one. How did absentminded beggar’s concluding testimonial conclude?

What a pity the government did not supply our men with wonderworkers
during the South African campaign! What a relief it would have been!

What object did Bloom add to this collection of objects?

A 4th typewritten letter received by Henry Flower (let H. My
little woman’s down there. Lionel Simon, singer, laughed. Excitement. Foot and Mouth. Seal up all. The _Cuckoos’ Rest!_ Why
not? How many women had you, eh, following them up dark streets,
flatfoot, exciting them by your smothered grunts, what, you male
prostitute? Blameless dames with parcels of groceries. Bronze by the window, watched, bronze from afar. It wouldn’t pan out somehow. Cissy Caffrey cuddled the wee chap for she was awfully fond of
children, so patient with little sufferers and Tommy Caffrey could
never be got to take his castor oil unless it was Cissy Caffrey that
held his nose and promised him the scatty heel of the loaf or brown
bread with golden syrup on. But he had overmuch drunken and the best word he could have of him was
that he would ever dishonest a woman whoso she were or wife or maid or
leman if it so fortuned him to be delivered of his spleen of lustihead. The keeper of the shelter in the middle of this _tête-à-tête_ put a
boiling swimming cup of a choice concoction labelled coffee on the
table and a rather antediluvian specimen of a bun, or so it seemed. Martha of Bethany and S. And who was sitting up there in
the corner that I hadn’t seen snoring drunk blind to the world only Bob
Doran. Wonder if he’s too
far to. CUNTY KATE: I did. Like getting
£. 59 p. The flow of the language it is. Dearest Papli

Thanks ever so much for the lovely birthday present. )_ She often said she’d like to visit. Now I’m going to try publicity. He followed the hasty creaking shoes but stood by nimbly by the
threshold, saluting forms, a bulky with a slender. Filthy shells. And says J. Life and Miracles of the Curé of
Ars. A woman brought sin into the world. Where did I?

Busy looking. Sad booser’s
eyes. 1000 sovs with 3000 in
specie. Girl in the monkeyhouse. Hail Mary and Holy
Mary. The foot that beat the ground in
tripudium, foot I dislove. Apollo that was. Through here. No chair for father. That is his appropriate sun. Thumping. Read the Priest, the Woman and the
Confessional. I suppose we can
do so too. _Or again if we
but climb the serried mountain peaks. And _apropos_ of coffin of stones the
analogy was not at all bad as it was in fact a stoning to death on the
part of seventytwo out of eighty odd constituencies that ratted at the
time of the split and chiefly the belauded peasant class, probably the
selfsame evicted tenants he had put in their holdings. THE VOICE OF ALL THE DAMNED: Htengier Tnetopinmo Dog Drol eht rof,
Aiulella!

_(From on high the voice of Adonai calls. Coleridge called him
myriadminded. On the slow weedy waterway he had floated on
his raft coastward over Ireland drawn by a haulage rope past beds of
reeds, over slime, mudchoked bottles, carrion dogs. STEPHEN: _(Turns. ’s raise the wind on false pretences. Eulogy in a country churchyard it ought to be that
poem of whose is it Wordsworth or Thomas Campbell. He was in the bakery line too, wasn’t he? Why they
call him Doughy Daw. Wonder is there any magnetic
influence between the person because that was about the time he. Coffined thoughts around me, in mummycases, embalmed in spice of words. —Mrkrgnao! the cat said loudly. She dances in a foul gloom where gum bums with garlic. He
turned to the right and on his right Master Dignam turned, his cap
awry, his collar sticking up. Trapeze at Hengler’s. _

In liver gravy Bloom mashed mashed potatoes. And there came a voice out of heaven, calling:
_Elijah! Elijah!_ And He answered with a main cry: _Abba! Adonai!_ And
they beheld Him even Him, ben Bloom Elijah, amid clouds of angels
ascend to the glory of the brightness at an angle of fortyfive degrees
over Donohoe’s in Little Green street like a shot off a shovel. Who’s hindering you? And off he pops like greased lightning. What did Bloom do?

He extinguished the candle by a sharp expiration of breath upon its
flame, drew two spoonseat deal chairs to the hearthstone, one for
Stephen with its back to the area window, the other for himself when
necessary, knelt on one knee, composed in the grate a pyre of crosslaid
resintipped sticks and various coloured papers and irregular polygons
of best Abram coal at twentyone shillings a ton from the yard of Messrs
Flower and M’Donald of 14 D’Olier street, kindled it at three
projecting points of paper with one ignited lucifer match, thereby
releasing the potential energy contained in the fuel by allowing its
carbon and hydrogen elements to enter into free union with the oxygen
of the air. Gleaming silks, petticoats on slim brass rails, rays of flat silk
stockings. Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U. Give us back them papers. Cloche. Stuffy it was. Buck Mulligan at once put on a blithe broadly smiling face. She liked mignonette. Like those rhapsodies of Liszt’s, Hungarian,
gipsyeyed. Off to the country: Broadstone probably. She’s passed. He said that he had seen from the gods my peerless
globes as I sat in a box of the _Theatre Royal_ at a command
performance of _La Cigale_. Why? That lies in space which I in time must
come to, ineluctably. It’s the ads and side features sell a weekly, not the stale news
in the official gazette. _The Irish
Independent,_ if you please, founded by Parnell to be the workingman’s
friend. He moved to go. T. Strangers in my house, bad manners to
them! _(She keens with banshee woe. Heart. He has the
romantic Saviour’s face with flowing locks, thin beard and moustache. S. Già: di lui. His spindlelegs and sparrow feet are those of the tenor Mario, prince
of Candia. Davy Stephens, minute in
a large capecoat, a small felt hat crowning his ringlets, passed out
with a roll of papers under his cape, a king’s courier. VIRAG: _(Sloughing his skins, his multitudinous plumage moulting. Know his dona? Yup, sartin I do. What does it care about offences? Chuck Loyola,
Kinch, and come on down. Take that in your right hand and
repeat after me the following words. _) Odd! Molly drawing on the frosted
carriagepane at Kingstown. Good men and true. Sound meat there: like a stallfed heifer. Ugly and futile: lean neck and tangled hair and a stain of ink, a
snail’s bed. Why? Some reason. Excuse bad writing. Who comes through Michan’s land, bedight in sable armour? O’Bloom, the
son of Rory: it is he. Hoho begob says I to myself says I. Breen. O, well, she has to live like the rest. Course if I didn’t I wouldn’t ask. Dreams all night. Dead March from _Saul. —Good morning, he said, moving away. )_ He’s getting his pleasure. Cranly’s arm. Them are his trousers I’ve on me
and he gave me an oilskin and that jackknife. No. Pub clock
five minutes fast. Glass flashing. Donnybrook fair more in
their line. Happy
chairs under them. Title: Ulysses

Author: James Joyce

Release Date: December 27, 2001 [eBook #4300]
[Most recently updated: December 27, 2019]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Col Choat and David Widger

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ULYSSES ***

[Illustration]




Ulysses


by James Joyce


Contents

 — I —

 [ 1 ]
 [ 2 ]
 [ 3 ]

 — II —

 [ 4 ]
 [ 5 ]
 [ 6 ]
 [ 7 ]
 [ 8 ]
 [ 9 ]
 [ 10 ]
 [ 11 ]
 [ 12 ]
 [ 13 ]
 [ 14 ]
 [ 15 ]

 — III —

 [ 16 ]
 [ 17 ]
 [ 18 ]




— I —


[ 1 ]

Stately, plump Buck Mulligan came from the stairhead, bearing a bowl of
lather on which a mirror and a razor lay crossed. Let them sleep in their
maggoty beds. Poor Mrs Purefoy! Methodist husband. It was there she kept her girlish treasure
trove, the tortoiseshell combs, her child of Mary badge, the whiterose
scent, the eyebrowleine, her alabaster pouncetbox and the ribbons to
change when her things came home from the wash and there were some
beautiful thoughts written in it in violet ink that she bought in
Hely’s of Dame Street for she felt that she too could write poetry if
she could only express herself like that poem that appealed to her so
deeply that she had copied out of the newspaper she found one evening
round the potherbs. Secondleg they should be. P. Speak on. Wait. My club is the Junior Army and Navy. —So long! Nosey Flynn said. HENRY: All is lost now. _(Stephen, prone, breathes to the stars. Mr V. His superb highclass vocalism, which by its
superquality greatly enhanced his already international reputation, was
vociferously applauded by the large audience among which were to be
noticed many prominent members of the clergy as well as representatives
of the press and the bar and the other learned professions. )_ That bit about the
laughing witch hand in hand I take exception to, if I may. Who is it?

—O, Father Cowley said. In our confraternity. Hope no ape comes knocking just as
I’m. Before departing he requested that it should be told to
his dear son Patsy that the other boot which he had been looking for
was at present under the commode in the return room and that the pair
should be sent to Cullen’s to be soled only as the heels were still
good. In
the midst of death we are in life. No, that’s the other. Only two there now. _(General commotion and compassion. Slowly, without looking back she went down the uneven strand to Cissy,
to Edy to Jacky and Tommy Caffrey, to little baby Boardman. —Give us a squint at her, says I. He’s on for a razzle backache spree. HORNBLOWER: _(In ephod and huntingcap, announces. —Are you sure, says Bloom, the councillor is going? I wanted to see
him, as it happens. Honour where honour is due. But are you sure of that?

—You can tell Barabbas from me, Ben Dollard said, that he can put that
writ where Jacko put the nuts. They gazed curiously
an instant and turned quickly towards a Dalkey tram. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. The grainy sand had gone from under his feet. Old Mrs Thornton was a jolly old soul. There
rises a watchtower beheld of men afar. Lal the ral the ra. _(Whispered
kisses are heard in all the wood. —He’s in the craft, he said. BLOOM: _(Bows. Buck Mulligan sat down to unlace his boots. Clay, brown, damp, began to be seen in the hole. A plump bare generous arm
shone, was seen, held forth from a white petticoatbodice and taut
shiftstraps. Give him a rousing fine kick now and again
where it wouldn’t blind him. His
grandfather Patrick Michael Corley of New Ross had married the widow of
a publican there whose maiden name had been Katherine (also) Talbot. I couldn’t believe it when I
heard it. With a belly on
him like a poisoned pup. C. And that old grey rat tearing
to get in. —No, Ben, Tom Kernan interfered. Keyes, you remember?

Mr Nannetti considered the cutting awhile and nodded. Corner of Harcourt road remember that
gust. —Gumley? he said. He
took a red carnation from the tall stemglass. H. )_ And so Georgina Johnson is dead
and married. _(Bang fresh barang bang of lacquey’s bell, horse, nag, steer,
piglings, Conmee on Christass, lame crutch and leg sailor in cockboat
armfolded ropepulling hitching stamp hornpipe through and through. So he was before he got the job in the morgue under Louis Byrne. Also glowworms, cyclists: lightingup time. )_ Jesus! Don’t!

BLOOM: _(Warding off a blow. I
don’t mean to presume to dictate to you in the slightest degree but why
did you leave your father’s house?

—To seek misfortune, was Stephen’s answer. In his left eye flashes the monocle of Cashel Boyle
O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell. It was
darker now and there were stones and bits of wood on the strand and
slippy seaweed. )_ Too tight?

THE HOOF: If you bungle, Handy Andy, I’ll kick your football for you. Bloom’s
boys run amid the bystanders with branches of hawthorn and
wrenbushes. Useless. The widewinged nostrils, from which bristles of the same tawny hue
projected, were of such capaciousness that within their cavernous
obscurity the fieldlark might easily have lodged her nest. Takes it for
granted we’re going to pop off first. )_ Enter a ghost and hobgoblins. Clock whirred. A mason, yes. Egging raw youths on to
get in the know all the time drawing secret service pay from the
castle. His lips lipped and mouthed fleshless lips of air: mouth to her moomb. Dane vikings,
torcs of tomahawks aglitter on their breasts when Malachi wore the
collar of gold. Nature woman half a look. An old woman came forward and stood by Stephen’s elbow. —Two Dublin vestals, Stephen said, elderly and pious, have lived fifty
and fiftythree years in Fumbally’s lane. He
tapped his savingsbox against his thumbnail. Boof! Please keep off the
grass. With his mailed
gauntlet he brushed away a furtive tear and was overheard, by those
privileged burghers who happened to be in his immediate _entourage,_ to
murmur to himself in a faltering undertone:

—God blimey if she aint a clinker, that there bleeding tart. Buck Mulligan’s face smiled with delight. Sometimes they go off. Azotes. —They wouldn’t give anything on them, she said. Dignam. No accounting for tastes. Gerty MacDowell loves the boy that has the bicycle. A flower. p. Girl in Eustace
street hallway Monday was it settling her garter. )_ Sully my innocence! You are not fit to touch the garment
of a pure woman. Clouding over. —You pique my curiosity, Haines said amiably. )_
Shakti Shiva, darkhidden Father! _(He smites with his bicycle pump the
crayfish in his left hand. 8. —_The dewdrops pearl_. Near Holyhead by now. Why
I left the church of Rome. Ah!

Mr Bloom with careful hand recomposed his wet shirt. Buy a pair. Lip blow. MRS BREEN: _(To Bloom. org. At Geneva barrack that young man died. He began to remember that this had happened or had
been mentioned as having happened before but it cost him no small
effort before he remembered that he recognised in the sentry a
_quondam_ friend of his father’s, Gumley. —No: that book. Sweet and cheap: soon sour. )_ Gold. Stephen, arming Zoe with exaggerated grace, begins to
waltz her round the room. The keys of Dublin, crossed on a crimson cushion, are given to him. Tobaccoshopgirls. Was the knowledge possessed by both of each of these languages, the
extinct and the revived, theoretical or practical?

Theoretical, being confined to certain grammatical rules of accidence
and syntax and practically excluding vocabulary. C. And then
coming back was the worst thing you ever did because it went without
saying you would feel out of place as things always moved with the
times. )_ Hohohohohome. Animals go by that. Crossguns bridge: the royal canal. Trees are they? An optical illusion. Mrs Marion. A
worshipper of the Scarlet Woman, intrigue is the very breath of his
nostrils. His fingers drew forth the
letter the letter and crumpled the envelope in his pocket. But he’s a Trinity student. Mark time. Gas of graves. Fellow always like that, mortified if women are
by. Yes, it is. A hater of his
kind ran from them to the wood of madness, his mane foaming in the
moon, his eyeballs stars. Never tell you. )_ Messiah! He burst her tympanum. And as her loving eyes behold her babe she wishes only one
blessing more, to have her dear Doady there with her to share her joy,
to lay in his arms that mite of God’s clay, the fruit of their lawful
embraces. This is the appearance is on me. What’s keeping our friend?

He turned. Cuffe sold
them about twentyseven quid each. Had, too. DAVY BYRNE: _(Yawning. —What’s that? Martin Cunningham said. Martin of Tours and S. Tenderly Bloom over liverless bacon saw the tightened features strain. Heads I win tails you lose. _

Pprrpffrrppffff. _Prepare to
meet your God_, says he. Well? What harm is that?

He shook his constraint from him nervously. A young pullet. Powerful man he was at
stowing away number one Bass. Thing done. —Time enough, sir, she said, taking the coin. One in a million my tailor, Mesias, says. A side eye at my Hamlet hat. Of course it might. Thinking of
Spain. —We’ll be choked, Buck Mulligan said. _(The brothel cook, Mrs Keogh, wrinkled, greybearded, in a greasy bib,
men’s grey and green socks and brogues, floursmeared, a rollingpin
stuck with raw pastry in her bare red arm and hand, appears at the
door. Baraabum!)_

TUTTI: Encore! Bis! Bravo! Encore!

SIMON: Think of your mother’s people!

STEPHEN: Dance of death. Buck Mulligan swung round on his heel. Massage. _(Calling encouraging words he
shambles back with a furtive poacher’s tread, dogged by the setter into
a dark stalestunk corner. In a suddenly changed tone he added:

—To tell you the God’s truth I think you’re right. Cowley lay back. Lenehan gets some good ones. —Amen, says the citizen. She calls the doctor sir Peter Teazle and picks
buttercups off the quilt. Fox and geese. )_

KITTY: _(Chewing. His
machineries are pegging away too. Reason. Trying to walk. Righto, any old time. He found in the world
without as actual what was in his world within as possible. We never speak as we pass by. Myler quickly became busy and got his man under, the bout
ending with the bulkier man on the ropes, Myler punishing him. Full of his son. —Did she fall or was she pushed? he asked her. Thereto Punch Costello roared out mainly _Etienne chanson_ but he
loudly bid them, lo, wisdom hath built herself a house, this vast
majestic longstablished vault, the crystal palace of the Creator, all
in applepie order, a penny for him who finds the pea. She had to go but they would meet
again, there, and she would dream of that till then, tomorrow, of her
dream of yester eve. He took out his handkerchief to dab his nose. How did Bloom prepare a collation for a gentile?

He poured into two teacups two level spoonfuls, four in all, of Epps’s
soluble cocoa and proceeded according to the directions for use printed
on the label, to each adding after sufficient time for infusion the
prescribed ingredients for diffusion in the manner and in the quantity
prescribed. His Excellency! Too bad! Just missed that by a hair. Bag of corpsegas sopping in foul brine. Thing is if you really believe in it. _(He strikes a match and proceeds
to light the cigarette with enigmatic melancholy. Enter, gentleman, to see
in mirror every positions trapezes all that machine there besides also
if desire act awfully bestial butcher’s boy pollutes in warm veal liver
or omlet on the belly _pièce de Shakespeare. )_ Reuben J. —Ascot. Even the Grand Turk sent us his piastres. You just shove in my name
if I’m not there, will you?

—I’ll do that, Mr Bloom said, moving to get off. Must be seen to be believed. Look under the bed for what’s not there. True. Many a good one he told himself. Got her it once. He’s rather blasphemous. They call it reincarnation. It’s dyed. Is it only half fun? Or children playing battle. —Certainly, Ned Lambert said. A
pad to blot. Then passing over her white skin. He flung up his hands and tramped down the stone stairs, singing out of
tune with a Cockney accent:

     O, won’t we have a merry time,
     Drinking whisky, beer and wine!
     On coronation,
     Coronation day!
     O, won’t we have a merry time
     On coronation day!

Warm sunshine merrying over the sea. )_ Arrest him, constable. Don Giovanni, thou hast me invited
     To come to supper tonight,
     The rum the rumdum. All yielding she tossed my hair. must work off bad karma first. You whatwhat? That’s
the bucko that’ll organise her, take my tip. _At the siege of Ross did my father fall. He heard then a warm heavy sigh, softer,
as she turned over and the loose brass quoits of the bedstead jingled. WITH UNFEIGNED REGRET IT IS WE ANNOUNCE THE DISSOLUTION OF A MOST
RESPECTED DUBLIN BURGESS


Hynes here too: account of the funeral probably. )_
Vaseline, sir? Orangeflower. But she had nought for her teeth but the arm
with which I held her and in that she nibbled mischievously when I
pressed too close. )_ You’ve a hard chancre. Intelligent. No aid was given. Denis
Breen in skimpy frockcoat and blue canvas shoes shuffled out of
Harrison’s hugging two heavy tomes to his ribs. It
clanged. Living in a bogswamp, eating cheap food and the streets paved
with dust, horsedung and consumptives’ spits. The chryselephantine papal standard rises high,
surrounded by pennons of the civic flag. Her head
dancing. Drained all the manhood out of
me, little wretch. Yes. Across the world for a wife. Others abide our question. Tight, dear. O, the whore of the lane!

A frowsy whore with black straw sailor hat askew came glazily in the
day along the quay towards Mr Bloom. Dead
drunk on the porter. On this knotty point however the views of the pair, poles apart as they
were both in schooling and everything else with the marked difference
in their respective ages, clashed. Women won’t pick up pins. )_ Three times ten. Daresay she felt I. Double marriage of sisters celebrated. Doyle and John MacCormack I hope and. An old stager: greatgrandfather: he knows the ropes. F. The French
point of view. Julian Hospitator and S. —Hello, Flynn. I deeply inflamed him, he said. Paddy
Dignam shot out and rolling over stiff in the dust in a brown habit too
large for him. Other steps into his shoes when he gets
his notice to quit. BOYLAN: _(A merry twinkle in his eye. Great man’s brother: his brother’s brother. Christ Dowie and the harmonial
philosophy, have you got that? O. —So it is, Mr Dedalus said. Agendath what is it? Now, my miss. The pledgebound party on the floor of the house. Molly great dab at seeing anyone looking. Huuuh! out of that!

Thursday, of course. 8. Shout salvation in King
Jesus. The first
fellow that picked an herb to cure himself had a bit of pluck. Their
likes: their breaths, too, sweetened with tea and jam, their bracelets
tittering in the struggle. A magnificent specimen of manhood he was truly augmented
obviously by gifts of a high order, as compared with the other military
supernumerary that is (who was just the usual everyday _farewell, my
gallant captain_ kind of an individual in the light dragoons, the 18th
hussars to be accurate) and inflammable doubtless (the fallen leader,
that is, not the other) in his own peculiar way which she of course,
woman, quickly perceived as highly likely to carve his way to fame
which he almost bid fair to do till the priests and ministers of the
gospel as a whole, his erstwhile staunch adherents, and his beloved
evicted tenants for whom he had done yeoman service in the rural parts
of the country by taking up the cudgels on their behalf in a way that
exceeded their most sanguine expectations, very effectually cooked his
matrimonial goose, thereby heaping coals of fire on his head much in
the same way as the fabled ass’s kick. _

Makes them feel more important to be prayed over in Latin. I asked him how was all at
home. For Raoul. )_ Poetic. )_ Gave it to someone. , B. Make
her hear. doesn’t pile it on. Hide my
blushes someone. But wait awhile. Bear’s buzz bothers bees. _

—Jesus, says I. Love laughs at locksmiths. We two. Then they follow: dropping into a hole, one
after the other. Loveless, landless,
wifeless. )_ You’re not his father, are you?

BLOOM: Not I!

ZOE: You both in black. )_ I see Keating Clay is elected
vicechairman of the Richmond asylum and by the by Guinness’s preference
shares are at sixteen three quarters. Because the poor
animals suffer and experts say and the best known remedy that doesn’t
cause pain to the animal and on the sore spot administer gently. E. He hacked through the fry on the dish and slapped it out on three
plates, saying:

—_In nomine Patris et Filii et Spiritus Sancti. The son of a maltjobber and moneylender he was himself
a cornjobber and moneylender, with ten tods of corn hoarded in the
famine riots. My Ohio!

—A perfect cretic! the professor said. —Bye bye all, says Martin. And smiled yet again,
in going. Or who is he? No offence, Crofton. Secrets for enlarging your private parts. Thank you. Afraid to be alone like a child of two. Young student. Pseudonymous and S. It’s only
initialled: P. ???


Lenehan said to all:

—Silence! What opera resembles a railwayline? Reflect, ponder,
excogitate, reply. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. )_ Footstool! Feel my entire weight. There can be no two
opinions on the matter. There’s an example again of simple souls. They lend ear. Mark this farther and remember. —Buccinator muscle is. But it was no animal’s fault
in particular if he was built that way like the camel, ship of the
desert, distilling grapes into potheen in his hump. Stave it off
awhile. Mr Bloom stood
behind the boy with the wreath looking down at his sleekcombed hair and
at the slender furrowed neck inside his brandnew collar. Fabulous artificer. swear
that I will always hail, ever conceal, never reveal, any part or parts,
art or arts. )_ Absolutely! Well observed and those
pannier pockets of the skirt and slightly pegtop effect are devised to
suggest bunchiness of hip. And his name? Ger. And lo, there entered one of the clan of the O’Molloy’s, a comely hero
of white face yet withal somewhat ruddy, his majesty’s counsel learned
in the law, and with him the prince and heir of the noble line of
Lambert. )_ I don’t avoid it. That’s
why. _(Laughter)_

QUAKERLYSTER: (_A tempo_) But he that filches from me my good name. Stephen seated himself noiselessly before the princely presence. Charnelhouses. For
me. Where had previous intimations of the result, effected or projected,
been received by him?

In Bernard Kiernan’s licensed premises 8, 9 and 10 little Britain
street: in David Byrne’s licensed premises, 14 Duke street: in
O’Connell street lower, outside Graham Lemon’s when a dark man had
placed in his hand a throwaway (subsequently thrown away), advertising
Elijah, restorer of the church in Zion: in Lincoln place outside the
premises of F. Athlone, Mullingar,
Moyvalley, I could make a walking tour to see Milly by the canal. Mr Bloom walked unheeded along his grove by saddened angels, crosses,
broken pillars, family vaults, stone hopes praying with upcast eyes,
old Ireland’s hearts and hands. He’s coming in the afternoon. —I get paid this morning, Stephen said. He
drank indeed at one draught to pluck up a heart of any grace for it
thundered long rumblingly over all the heavens so that Master Madden,
being godly certain whiles, knocked him on his ribs upon that crack of
doom and Master Bloom, at the braggart’s side, spoke to him calming
words to slumber his great fear, advertising how it was no other thing
but a hubbub noise that he heard, the discharge of fluid from the
thunderhead, look you, having taken place, and all of the order of a
natural phenomenon. )_

CISSY CAFFREY:

     I gave it to Molly
     Because she was jolly,
     The leg of the duck,
     The leg of the duck. Heart. )_

THE HORSE: Hohohohohohoh! Hohohohome!

CORNY KELLEHER: Sure it was Behan our jarvey there that told me after
we left the two commercials in Mrs Cohen’s and I told him to pull up
and got off to see. He hopped down
from his perch and began to search his trouser pockets hastily. Rule the world today. CROFTON: This is indeed a festivity. Or do you want to
know?

BLOOM: _(Detaches her fingers and offers his palm. Maybe the women’s fault also. )_ And really it’s better the position. —Good day. He settles down his goffered ruffs and moistens his lips
with a passage of his amorous tongue. She sighs. Mulveys was the first when I was in bed that morning and Mrs Rubio
brought it in with the coffee she stood there standing when I asked her
to hand me and I pointing at them I couldnt think of the word a hairpin
to open it with ah horquilla disobliging old thing and it staring her
in the face with her switch of false hair on her and vain about her
appearance ugly as she was near 80 or a 100 her face a mass of wrinkles
with all her religion domineering because she never could get over the
Atlantic fleet coming in half the ships of the world and the Union Jack
flying with all her carabineros because 4 drunken English sailors took
all the rock from them and because I didnt run into mass often enough
in Santa Maria to please her with her shawl up on her except when there
was a marriage on with all her miracles of the saints and her black
blessed virgin with the silver dress and the sun dancing 3 times on
Easter Sunday morning and when the priest was going by with the bell
bringing the vatican to the dying blessing herself for his Majestad an
admirer he signed it I near jumped out of my skin I wanted to pick him
up when I saw him following me along the Calle Real in the shop window
then he tipped me just in passing but I never thought hed write making
an appointment I had it inside my petticoat bodice all day reading it
up in every hole and corner while father was up at the drill
instructing to find out by the handwriting or the language of stamps
singing I remember shall I wear a white rose and I wanted to put on the
old stupid clock to near the time he was the first man kissed me under
the Moorish wall my sweetheart when a boy it never entered my head what
kissing meant till he put his tongue in my mouth his mouth was
sweetlike young I put my knee up to him a few times to learn the way
what did I tell him I was engaged for for fun to the son of a Spanish
nobleman named Don Miguel de la Flora and he believed me that I was to
be married to him in 3 years time theres many a true word spoken in
jest there is a flower that bloometh a few things I told him true about
myself just for him to be imagining the Spanish girls he didnt like I
suppose one of them wouldnt have him I got him excited he crushed all
the flowers on my bosom he brought me he couldnt count the pesetas and
the perragordas till I taught him Cappoquin he came from he said on the
black water but it was too short then the day before he left May yes it
was May when the infant king of Spain was born Im always like that in
the spring Id like a new fellow every year up on the tiptop under the
rockgun near OHaras tower I told him it was struck by lightning and all
about the old Barbary apes they sent to Clapham without a tail
careering all over the show on each others back Mrs Rubio said she was
a regular old rock scorpion robbing the chickens out of Inces farm and
throw stones at you if you went anear he was looking at me I had that
white blouse on open in the front to encourage him as much as I could
without too openly they were just beginning to be plump I said I was
tired we lay over the firtree cove a wild place I suppose it must be
the highest rock in existence the galleries and casemates and those
frightful rocks and Saint Michaels cave with the icicles or whatever
they call them hanging down and ladders all the mud plotching my boots
Im sure thats the way down the monkeys go under the sea to Africa when
they die the ships out far like chips that was the Malta boat passing
yes the sea and the sky you could do what you liked lie there for ever
he caressed them outside they love doing that its the roundness there I
was leaning over him with my white ricestraw hat to take the newness
out of it the left side of my face the best my blouse open for his last
day transparent kind of shirt he had I could see his chest pink he
wanted to touch mine with his for a moment but I wouldnt let him he was
awfully put out first for fear you never know consumption or leave me
with a child embarazada that old servant Ines told me that one drop
even if it got into you at all after I tried with the Banana but I was
afraid it might break and get lost up in me somewhere because they once
took something down out of a woman that was up there for years covered
with limesalts theyre all mad to get in there where they come out of
youd think they could never go far enough up and then theyre done with
you in a way till the next time yes because theres a wonderful feeling
there so tender all the time how did we finish it off yes O yes I
pulled him off into my handkerchief pretending not to be excited but I
opened my legs I wouldnt let him touch me inside my petticoat because I
had a skirt opening up the side I tormented the life out of him first
tickling him I loved rousing that dog in the hotel rrrsssstt
awokwokawok his eyes shut and a bird flying below us he was shy all the
same I liked him like that moaning I made him blush a little when I got
over him that way when I unbuttoned him and took his out and drew back
the skin it had a kind of eye in it theyre all Buttons men down the
middle on the wrong side of them Molly darling he called me what was
his name Jack Joe Harry Mulvey was it yes I think a lieutenant he was
rather fair he had a laughing kind of a voice so I went round to the
whatyoucallit everything was whatyoucallit moustache had he he said hed
come back Lord its just like yesterday to me and if I was married hed
do it to me and I promised him yes faithfully Id let him block me now
flying perhaps hes dead or killed or a captain or admiral its nearly 20
years if I said firtree cove he would if he came up behind me and put
his hands over my eyes to guess who I might recognise him hes young
still about 40 perhaps hes married some girl on the black water and is
quite changed they all do they havent half the character a woman has
she little knows what I did with her beloved husband before he ever
dreamt of her in broad daylight too in the sight of the whole world you
might say they could have put an article about it in the Chronicle I
was a bit wild after when I blew out the old bag the biscuits were in
from Benady Bros and exploded it Lord what a bang all the woodcocks and
pigeons screaming coming back the same way that we went over middle
hill round by the old guardhouse and the jews burialplace pretending to
read out the Hebrew on them I wanted to fire his pistol he said he
hadnt one he didnt know what to make of me with his peak cap on that he
always wore crooked as often as I settled it straight H M S Calypso
swinging my hat that old Bishop that spoke off the altar his long
preach about womans higher functions about girls now riding the bicycle
and wearing peak caps and the new woman bloomers God send him sense and
me more money I suppose theyre called after him I never thought that
would be my name Bloom when I used to write it in print to see how it
looked on a visiting card or practising for the butcher and oblige M
Bloom youre looking blooming Josie used to say after I married him well
its better than Breen or Briggs does brig or those awful names with
bottom in them Mrs Ramsbottom or some other kind of a bottom Mulvey I
wouldnt go mad about either or suppose I divorced him Mrs Boylan my
mother whoever she was might have given me a nicer name the Lord knows
after the lovely one she had Lunita Laredo the fun we had running along
Williss road to Europa point twisting in and out all round the other
side of Jersey they were shaking and dancing about in my blouse like
Millys little ones now when she runs up the stairs I loved looking down
at them I was jumping up at the pepper trees and the white poplars
pulling the leaves off and throwing them at him he went to India he was
to write the voyages those men have to make to the ends of the world
and back its the least they might get a squeeze or two at a woman while
they can going out to be drowned or blown up somewhere I went up
Windmill hill to the flats that Sunday morning with captain Rubios that
was dead spyglass like the sentry had he said hed have one or two from
on board I wore that frock from the B Marche paris and the coral
necklace the straits shining I could see over to Morocco almost the bay
of Tangier white and the Atlas mountain with snow on it and the straits
like a river so clear Harry Molly darling I was thinking of him on the
sea all the time after at mass when my petticoat began to slip down at
the elevation weeks and weeks I kept the handkerchief under my pillow
for the smell of him there was no decent perfume to be got in that
Gibraltar only that cheap peau dEspagne that faded and left a stink on
you more than anything else I wanted to give him a memento he gave me
that clumsy Claddagh ring for luck that I gave Gardner going to south
Africa where those Boers killed him with their war and fever but they
were well beaten all the same as if it brought its bad luck with it
like an opal or pearl still it must have been pure 18 carrot gold
because it was very heavy but what could you get in a place like that
the sandfrog shower from Africa and that derelict ship that came up to
the harbour Marie the Marie whatyoucallit no he hadnt a moustache that
was Gardner yes I can see his face cleanshaven
Frseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeefrong that train again weeping tone once in the
dear deaead days beyondre call close my eyes breath my lips forward
kiss sad look eyes open piano ere oer the world the mists began I hate
that istsbeg comes loves sweet sooooooooooong Ill let that out full
when I get in front of the footlights again Kathleen Kearney and her
lot of squealers Miss This Miss That Miss Theother lot of sparrowfarts
skitting around talking about politics they know as much about as my
backside anything in the world to make themselves someway interesting
Irish homemade beauties soldiers daughter am I ay and whose are you
bootmakers and publicans I beg your pardon coach I thought you were a
wheelbarrow theyd die down dead off their feet if ever they got a
chance of walking down the Alameda on an officers arm like me on the
bandnight my eyes flash my bust that they havent passion God help their
poor head I knew more about men and life when I was 15 than theyll all
know at 50 they dont know how to sing a song like that Gardner said no
man could look at my mouth and teeth smiling like that and not think of
it I was afraid he mightnt like my accent first he so English all
father left me in spite of his stamps Ive my mothers eyes and figure
anyhow he always said theyre so snotty about themselves some of those
cads he wasnt a bit like that he was dead gone on my lips let them get
a husband first thats fit to be looked at and a daughter like mine or
see if they can excite a swell with money that can pick and choose
whoever he wants like Boylan to do it 4 or 5 times locked in each
others arms or the voice either I could have been a prima donna only I
married him comes looooves old deep down chin back not too much make it
double My Ladys Bower is too long for an encore about the moated grange
at twilight and vaunted rooms yes Ill sing Winds that blow from the
south that he gave after the choirstairs performance Ill change that
lace on my black dress to show off my bubs and Ill yes by God Ill get
that big fan mended make them burst with envy my hole is itching me
always when I think of him I feel I want to I feel some wind in me
better go easy not wake him have him at it again slobbering after
washing every bit of myself back belly and sides if we had even a bath
itself or my own room anyway I wish hed sleep in some bed by himself
with his cold feet on me give us room even to let a fart God or do the
least thing better yes hold them like that a bit on my side piano
quietly sweeeee theres that train far away pianissimo eeeee one more
song

that was a relief wherever you be let your wind go free who knows if
that pork chop I took with my cup of tea after was quite good with the
heat I couldnt smell anything off it Im sure that queerlooking man in
the porkbutchers is a great rogue I hope that lamp is not smoking fill
my nose up with smuts better than having him leaving the gas on all
night I couldnt rest easy in my bed in Gibraltar even getting up to see
why am I so damned nervous about that though I like it in the winter
its more company O Lord it was rotten cold too that winter when I was
only about ten was I yes I had the big doll with all the funny clothes
dressing her up and undressing that icy wind skeeting across from those
mountains the something Nevada sierra nevada standing at the fire with
the little bit of a short shift I had up to heat myself I loved dancing
about in it then make a race back into bed Im sure that fellow opposite
used to be there the whole time watching with the lights out in the
summer and I in my skin hopping around I used to love myself then
stripped at the washstand dabbing and creaming only when it came to the
chamber performance I put out the light too so then there were 2 of us
goodbye to my sleep for this night anyhow I hope hes not going to get
in with those medicals leading him astray to imagine hes young again
coming in at 4 in the morning it must be if not more still he had the
manners not to wake me what do they find to gabber about all night
squandering money and getting drunker and drunker couldnt they drink
water then he starts giving us his orders for eggs and tea and Findon
haddy and hot buttered toast I suppose well have him sitting up like
the king of the country pumping the wrong end of the spoon up and down
in his egg wherever he learned that from and I love to hear him falling
up the stairs of a morning with the cups rattling on the tray and then
play with the cat she rubs up against you for her own sake I wonder has
she fleas shes as bad as a woman always licking and lecking but I hate
their claws I wonder do they see anything that we cant staring like
that when she sits at the top of the stairs so long and listening as I
wait always what a robber too that lovely fresh plaice I bought I think
Ill get a bit of fish tomorrow or today is it Friday yes I will with
some blancmange with black currant jam like long ago not those 2 lb
pots of mixed plum and apple from the London and Newcastle Williams and
Woods goes twice as far only for the bones I hate those eels cod yes
Ill get a nice piece of cod Im always getting enough for 3 forgetting
anyway Im sick of that everlasting butchers meat from Buckleys loin
chops and leg beef and rib steak and scrag of mutton and calfs pluck
the very name is enough or a picnic suppose we all gave 5/- each and or
let him pay it and invite some other woman for him who Mrs Fleming and
drove out to the furry glen or the strawberry beds wed have him
examining all the horses toenails first like he does with the letters
no not with Boylan there yes with some cold veal and ham mixed
sandwiches there are little houses down at the bottom of the banks
there on purpose but its as hot as blazes he says not a bank holiday
anyhow I hate those ruck of Mary Ann coalboxes out for the day Whit
Monday is a cursed day too no wonder that bee bit him better the
seaside but Id never again in this life get into a boat with him after
him at Bray telling the boatman he knew how to row if anyone asked
could he ride the steeplechase for the gold cup hed say yes then it
came on to get rough the old thing crookeding about and the weight all
down my side telling me pull the right reins now pull the left and the
tide all swamping in floods in through the bottom and his oar slipping
out of the stirrup its a mercy we werent all drowned he can swim of
course me no theres no danger whatsoever keep yourself calm in his
flannel trousers Id like to have tattered them down off him before all
the people and give him what that one calls flagellate till he was
black and blue do him all the good in the world only for that longnosed
chap I dont know who he is with that other beauty Burke out of the City
Arms hotel was there spying around as usual on the slip always where he
wasnt wanted if there was a row on youd vomit a better face there was
no love lost between us thats 1 consolation I wonder what kind is that
book he brought me Sweets of Sin by a gentleman of fashion some other
Mr de Kock I suppose the people gave him that nickname going about with
his tube from one woman to another I couldnt even change my new white
shoes all ruined with the saltwater and the hat I had with that feather
all blowy and tossed on me how annoying and provoking because the smell
of the sea excited me of course the sardines and the bream in Catalan
bay round the back of the rock they were fine all silver in the
fishermens baskets old Luigi near a hundred they said came from Genoa
and the tall old chap with the earrings I dont like a man you have to
climb up to to get at I suppose theyre all dead and rotten long ago
besides I dont like being alone in this big barracks of a place at
night I suppose Ill have to put up with it I never brought a bit of
salt in even when we moved in the confusion musical academy he was
going to make on the first floor drawingroom with a brassplate or
Blooms private hotel he suggested go and ruin himself altogether the
way his father did down in Ennis like all the things he told father he
was going to do and me but I saw through him telling me all the lovely
places we could go for the honeymoon Venice by moonlight with the
gondolas and the lake of Como he had a picture cut out of some paper of
and mandolines and lanterns O how nice I said whatever I liked he was
going to do immediately if not sooner will you be my man will you carry
my can he ought to get a leather medal with a putty rim for all the
plans he invents then leaving us here all day youd never know what old
beggar at the door for a crust with his long story might be a tramp and
put his foot in the way to prevent me shutting it like that picture of
that hardened criminal he was called in Lloyds Weekly news 20 years in
jail then he comes out and murders an old woman for her money imagine
his poor wife or mother or whoever she is such a face youd run miles
away from I couldnt rest easy till I bolted all the doors and windows
to make sure but its worse again being locked up like in a prison or a
madhouse they ought to be all shot or the cat of nine tails a big brute
like that that would attack a poor old woman to murder her in her bed
Id cut them off him so I would not that hed be much use still better
than nothing the night I was sure I heard burglars in the kitchen and
he went down in his shirt with a candle and a poker as if he was
looking for a mouse as white as a sheet frightened out of his wits
making as much noise as he possibly could for the burglars benefit
there isnt much to steal indeed the Lord knows still its the feeling
especially now with Milly away such an idea for him to send the girl
down there to learn to take photographs on account of his grandfather
instead of sending her to Skerrys academy where shed have to learn not
like me getting all at school only hed do a thing like that all the
same on account of me and Boylan thats why he did it Im certain the way
he plots and plans everything out I couldnt turn round with her in the
place lately unless I bolted the door first gave me the fidgets coming
in without knocking first when I put the chair against the door just as
I was washing myself there below with the glove get on your nerves then
doing the loglady all day put her in a glasscase with two at a time to
look at her if he knew she broke off the hand off that little gimcrack
statue with her roughness and carelessness before she left that I got
that little Italian boy to mend so that you cant see the join for 2
shillings wouldnt even teem the potatoes for you of course shes right
not to ruin her hands I noticed he was always talking to her lately at
the table explaining things in the paper and she pretending to
understand sly of course that comes from his side of the house he cant
say I pretend things can he Im too honest as a matter of fact and
helping her into her coat but if there was anything wrong with her its
me shed tell not him I suppose he thinks Im finished out and laid on
the shelf well Im not no nor anything like it well see well see now
shes well on for flirting too with Tom Devans two sons imitating me
whistling with those romps of Murray girls calling for her can Milly
come out please shes in great demand to pick what they can out of her
round in Nelson street riding Harry Devans bicycle at night its as well
he sent her where she is she was just getting out of bounds wanting to
go on the skatingrink and smoking their cigarettes through their nose I
smelt it off her dress when I was biting off the thread of the button I
sewed on to the bottom of her jacket she couldnt hide much from me I
tell you only I oughtnt to have stitched it and it on her it brings a
parting and the last plumpudding too split in 2 halves see it comes out
no matter what they say her tongue is a bit too long for my taste your
blouse is open too low she says to me the pan calling the kettle
blackbottom and I had to tell her not to cock her legs up like that on
show on the windowsill before all the people passing they all look at
her like me when I was her age of course any old rag looks well on you
then a great touchmenot too in her own way at the Only Way in the
Theatre royal take your foot away out of that I hate people touching me
afraid of her life Id crush her skirt with the pleats a lot of that
touching must go on in theatres in the crush in the dark theyre always
trying to wiggle up to you that fellow in the pit at the Gaiety for
Beerbohm Tree in Trilby the last time Ill ever go there to be squashed
like that for any Trilby or her barebum every two minutes tipping me
there and looking away hes a bit daft I think I saw him after trying to
get near two stylishdressed ladies outside Switzers window at the same
little game I recognised him on the moment the face and everything but
he didnt remember me yes and she didnt even want me to kiss her at the
Broadstone going away well I hope shell get someone to dance attendance
on her the way I did when she was down with the mumps and her glands
swollen wheres this and wheres that of course she cant feel anything
deep yet I never came properly till I was what 22 or so it went into
the wrong place always only the usual girls nonsense and giggling that
Conny Connolly writing to her in white ink on black paper sealed with
sealingwax though she clapped when the curtain came down because he
looked so handsome then we had Martin Harvey for breakfast dinner and
supper I thought to myself afterwards it must be real love if a man
gives up his life for her that way for nothing I suppose there are a
few men like that left its hard to believe in it though unless it
really happened to me the majority of them with not a particle of love
in their natures to find two people like that nowadays full up of each
other that would feel the same way as you do theyre usually a bit
foolish in the head his father must have been a bit queer to go and
poison himself after her still poor old man I suppose he felt lost shes
always making love to my things too the few old rags I have wanting to
put her hair up at 15 my powder too only ruin her skin on her shes time
enough for that all her life after of course shes restless knowing shes
pretty with her lips so red a pity they wont stay that way I was too
but theres no use going to the fair with the thing answering me like a
fishwoman when I asked to go for a half a stone of potatoes the day we
met Mrs Joe Gallaher at the trottingmatches and she pretended not to
see us in her trap with Friery the solicitor we werent grand enough
till I gave her 2 damn fine cracks across the ear for herself take that
now for answering me like that and that for your impudence she had me
that exasperated of course contradicting I was badtempered too because
how was it there was a weed in the tea or I didnt sleep the night
before cheese I ate was it and I told her over and over again not to
leave knives crossed like that because she has nobody to command her as
she said herself well if he doesnt correct her faith I will that was
the last time she turned on the teartap I was just like that myself
they darent order me about the place its his fault of course having the
two of us slaving here instead of getting in a woman long ago am I ever
going to have a proper servant again of course then shed see him coming
Id have to let her know or shed revenge it arent they a nuisance that
old Mrs Fleming you have to be walking round after her putting the
things into her hands sneezing and farting into the pots well of course
shes old she cant help it a good job I found that rotten old smelly
dishcloth that got lost behind the dresser I knew there was something
and opened the area window to let out the smell bringing in his friends
to entertain them like the night he walked home with a dog if you
please that might have been mad especially Simon Dedalus son his father
such a criticiser with his glasses up with his tall hat on him at the
cricket match and a great big hole in his sock one thing laughing at
the other and his son that got all those prizes for whatever he won
them in the intermediate imagine climbing over the railings if anybody
saw him that knew us I wonder he didnt tear a big hole in his grand
funeral trousers as if the one nature gave wasnt enough for anybody
hawking him down into the dirty old kitchen now is he right in his head
I ask pity it wasnt washing day my old pair of drawers might have been
hanging up too on the line on exhibition for all hed ever care with the
ironmould mark the stupid old bundle burned on them he might think was
something else and she never even rendered down the fat I told her and
now shes going such as she was on account of her paralysed husband
getting worse theres always something wrong with them disease or they
have to go under an operation or if its not that its drink and he beats
her Ill have to hunt around again for someone every day I get up theres
some new thing on sweet God sweet God well when Im stretched out dead
in my grave I suppose Ill have some peace I want to get up a minute if
Im let wait O Jesus wait yes that thing has come on me yes now wouldnt
that afflict you of course all the poking and rooting and ploughing he
had up in me now what am I to do Friday Saturday Sunday wouldnt that
pester the soul out of a body unless he likes it some men do God knows
theres always something wrong with us 5 days every 3 or 4 weeks usual
monthly auction isnt it simply sickening that night it came on me like
that the one and only time we were in a box that Michael Gunn gave him
to see Mrs Kendal and her husband at the Gaiety something he did about
insurance for him in Drimmies I was fit to be tied though I wouldnt
give in with that gentleman of fashion staring down at me with his
glasses and him the other side of me talking about Spinoza and his soul
thats dead I suppose millions of years ago I smiled the best I could
all in a swamp leaning forward as if I was interested having to sit it
out then to the last tag I wont forget that wife of Scarli in a hurry
supposed to be a fast play about adultery that idiot in the gallery
hissing the woman adulteress he shouted I suppose he went and had a
woman in the next lane running round all the back ways after to make up
for it I wish he had what I had then hed boo I bet the cat itself is
better off than us have we too much blood up in us or what O patience
above its pouring out of me like the sea anyhow he didnt make me
pregnant as big as he is I dont want to ruin the clean sheets I just
put on I suppose the clean linen I wore brought it on too damn it damn
it and they always want to see a stain on the bed to know youre a
virgin for them all thats troubling them theyre such fools too you
could be a widow or divorced 40 times over a daub of red ink would do
or blackberry juice no thats too purply O Jamesy let me up out of this
pooh sweets of sin whoever suggested that business for women what
between clothes and cooking and children this damned old bed too
jingling like the dickens I suppose they could hear us away over the
other side of the park till I suggested to put the quilt on the floor
with the pillow under my bottom I wonder is it nicer in the day I think
it is easy I think Ill cut all this hair off me there scalding me I
might look like a young girl wouldnt he get the great suckin the next
time he turned up my clothes on me Id give anything to see his face
wheres the chamber gone easy Ive a holy horror of its breaking under me
after that old commode I wonder was I too heavy sitting on his knee I
made him sit on the easychair purposely when I took off only my blouse
and skirt first in the other room he was so busy where he oughtnt to be
he never felt me I hope my breath was sweet after those kissing comfits
easy God I remember one time I could scout it out straight whistling
like a man almost easy O Lord how noisy I hope theyre bubbles on it for
a wad of money from some fellow Ill have to perfume it in the morning
dont forget I bet he never saw a better pair of thighs than that look
how white they are the smoothest place is right there between this bit
here how soft like a peach easy God I wouldnt mind being a man and get
up on a lovely woman O Lord what a row youre making like the jersey
lily easy easy O how the waters come down at Lahore

who knows is there anything the matter with my insides or have I
something growing in me getting that thing like that every week when
was it last I Whit Monday yes its only about 3 weeks I ought to go to
the doctor only it would be like before I married him when I had that
white thing coming from me and Floey made me go to that dry old stick
Dr Collins for womens diseases on Pembroke road your vagina he called
it I suppose thats how he got all the gilt mirrors and carpets getting
round those rich ones off Stephens green running up to him for every
little fiddlefaddle her vagina and her cochinchina theyve money of
course so theyre all right I wouldnt marry him not if he was the last
man in the world besides theres something queer about their children
always smelling around those filthy bitches all sides asking me if what
I did had an offensive odour what did he want me to do but the one
thing gold maybe what a question if I smathered it all over his wrinkly
old face for him with all my compriments I suppose hed know then and
could you pass it easily pass what I thought he was talking about the
rock of Gibraltar the way he put it thats a very nice invention too by
the way only I like letting myself down after in the hole as far as I
can squeeze and pull the chain then to flush it nice cool pins and
needles still theres something in it I suppose I always used to know by
Millys when she was a child whether she had worms or not still all the
same paying him for that how much is that doctor one guinea please and
asking me had I frequent omissions where do those old fellows get all
the words they have omissions with his shortsighted eyes on me cocked
sideways I wouldnt trust him too far to give me chloroform or God knows
what else still I liked him when he sat down to write the thing out
frowning so severe his nose intelligent like that you be damned you
lying strap O anything no matter who except an idiot he was clever
enough to spot that of course that was all thinking of him and his mad
crazy letters my Precious one everything connected with your glorious
Body everything underlined that comes from it is a thing of beauty and
of joy for ever something he got out of some nonsensical book that he
had me always at myself 4 and 5 times a day sometimes and I said I
hadnt are you sure O yes I said I am quite sure in a way that shut him
up I knew what was coming next only natural weakness it was he excited
me I dont know how the first night ever we met when I was living in
Rehoboth terrace we stood staring at one another for about 10 minutes
as if we met somewhere I suppose on account of my being jewess looking
after my mother he used to amuse me the things he said with the half
sloothering smile on him and all the Doyles said he was going to stand
for a member of Parliament O wasnt I the born fool to believe all his
blather about home rule and the land league sending me that long strool
of a song out of the Huguenots to sing in French to be more classy O
beau pays de la Touraine that I never even sang once explaining and
rigmaroling about religion and persecution he wont let you enjoy
anything naturally then might he as a great favour the very 1st
opportunity he got a chance in Brighton square running into my bedroom
pretending the ink got on his hands to wash it off with the Albion milk
and sulphur soap I used to use and the gelatine still round it O I
laughed myself sick at him that day I better not make an alnight
sitting on this affair they ought to make chambers a natural size so
that a woman could sit on it properly he kneels down to do it I suppose
there isnt in all creation another man with the habits he has look at
the way hes sleeping at the foot of the bed how can he without a hard
bolster its well he doesnt kick or he might knock out all my teeth
breathing with his hand on his nose like that Indian god he took me to
show one wet Sunday in the museum in Kildare street all yellow in a
pinafore lying on his side on his hand with his ten toes sticking out
that he said was a bigger religion than the jews and Our Lords both put
together all over Asia imitating him as hes always imitating everybody
I suppose he used to sleep at the foot of the bed too with his big
square feet up in his wifes mouth damn this stinking thing anyway
wheres this those napkins are ah yes I know I hope the old press doesnt
creak ah I knew it would hes sleeping hard had a good time somewhere
still she must have given him great value for his money of course he
has to pay for it from her O this nuisance of a thing I hope theyll
have something better for us in the other world tying ourselves up God
help us thats all right for tonight now the lumpy old jingly bed always
reminds me of old Cohen I suppose he scratched himself in it often
enough and he thinks father bought it from Lord Napier that I used to
admire when I was a little girl because I told him easy piano O I like
my bed God here we are as bad as ever after 16 years how many houses
were we in at all Raymond terrace and Ontario terrace and Lombard
street and Holles street and he goes about whistling every time were on
the run again his huguenots or the frogs march pretending to help the
men with our 4 sticks of furniture and then the City Arms hotel worse
and worse says Warden Daly that charming place on the landing always
somebody inside praying then leaving all their stinks after them always
know who was in there last every time were just getting on right
something happens or he puts his big foot in it Thoms and Helys and Mr
Cuffes and Drimmies either hes going to be run into prison over his old
lottery tickets that was to be all our salvations or he goes and gives
impudence well have him coming home with the sack soon out of the
Freeman too like the rest on account of those Sinner Fein or the
freemasons then well see if the little man he showed me dribbling along
in the wet all by himself round by Coadys lane will give him much
consolation that he says is so capable and sincerely Irish he is indeed
judging by the sincerity of the trousers I saw on him wait theres
Georges church bells wait 3 quarters the hour wait two oclock well
thats a nice hour of the night for him to be coming home at to anybody
climbing down into the area if anybody saw him Ill knock him off that
little habit tomorrow first Ill look at his shirt to see or Ill see if
he has that French letter still in his pocketbook I suppose he thinks I
dont know deceitful men all their 20 pockets arent enough for their
lies then why should we tell them even if its the truth they dont
believe you then tucked up in bed like those babies in the Aristocrats
Masterpiece he brought me another time as if we hadnt enough of that in
real life without some old Aristocrat or whatever his name is
disgusting you more with those rotten pictures children with two heads
and no legs thats the kind of villainy theyre always dreaming about
with not another thing in their empty heads they ought to get slow
poison the half of them then tea and toast for him buttered on both
sides and newlaid eggs I suppose Im nothing any more when I wouldnt let
him lick me in Holles street one night man man tyrant as ever for the
one thing he slept on the floor half the night naked the way the jews
used when somebody dies belonged to them and wouldnt eat any breakfast
or speak a word wanting to be petted so I thought I stood out enough
for one time and let him he does it all wrong too thinking only of his
own pleasure his tongue is too flat or I dont know what he forgets that
wethen I dont Ill make him do it again if he doesnt mind himself and
lock him down to sleep in the coalcellar with the blackbeetles I wonder
was it her Josie off her head with my castoffs hes such a born liar too
no hed never have the courage with a married woman thats why he wants
me and Boylan though as for her Denis as she calls him that
forlornlooking spectacle you couldnt call him a husband yes its some
little bitch hes got in with even when I was with him with Milly at the
College races that Hornblower with the childs bonnet on the top of his
nob let us into by the back way he was throwing his sheeps eyes at
those two doing skirt duty up and down I tried to wink at him first no
use of course and thats the way his money goes this is the fruits of Mr
Paddy Dignam yes they were all in great style at the grand funeral in
the paper Boylan brought in if they saw a real officers funeral thatd
be something reversed arms muffled drums the poor horse walking behind
in black L Boom and Tom Kernan that drunken little barrelly man that
bit his tongue off falling down the mens W C drunk in some place or
other and Martin Cunningham and the two Dedaluses and Fanny MCoys
husband white head of cabbage skinny thing with a turn in her eye
trying to sing my songs shed want to be born all over again and her old
green dress with the lowneck as she cant attract them any other way
like dabbling on a rainy day I see it all now plainly and they call
that friendship killing and then burying one another and they all with
their wives and families at home more especially Jack Power keeping
that barmaid he does of course his wife is always sick or going to be
sick or just getting better of it and hes a goodlooking man still
though hes getting a bit grey over the ears theyre a nice lot all of
them well theyre not going to get my husband again into their clutches
if I can help it making fun of him then behind his back I know well
when he goes on with his idiotics because he has sense enough not to
squander every penny piece he earns down their gullets and looks after
his wife and family goodfornothings poor Paddy Dignam all the same Im
sorry in a way for him what are his wife and 5 children going to do
unless he was insured comical little teetotum always stuck up in some
pub corner and her or her son waiting Bill Bailey wont you please come
home her widows weeds wont improve her appearance theyre awfully
becoming though if youre goodlooking what men wasnt he yes he was at
the Glencree dinner and Ben Dollard base barreltone the night he
borrowed the swallowtail to sing out of in Holles street squeezed and
squashed into them and grinning all over his big Dolly face like a
wellwhipped childs botty didnt he look a balmy ballocks sure enough
that must have been a spectacle on the stage imagine paying 5/- in the
preserved seats for that to see him trotting off in his trowlers and
Simon Dedalus too he was always turning up half screwed singing the
second verse first the old love is the new was one of his so sweetly
sang the maiden on the hawthorn bough he was always on for flirtyfying
too when I sang Maritana with him at Freddy Mayers private opera he had
a delicious glorious voice Phoebe dearest goodbye sweetheart
_sweet_heart he always sang it not like Bartell DArcy sweet _tart_
goodbye of course he had the gift of the voice so there was no art in
it all over you like a warm showerbath O Maritana wildwood flower we
sang splendidly though it was a bit too high for my register even
transposed and he was married at the time to May Goulding but then hed
say or do something to knock the good out of it hes a widower now I
wonder what sort is his son he says hes an author and going to be a
university professor of Italian and Im to take lessons what is he
driving at now showing him my photo its not good of me I ought to have
got it taken in drapery that never looks out of fashion still I look
young in it I wonder he didnt make him a present of it altogether and
me too after all why not I saw him driving down to the Kingsbridge
station with his father and mother I was in mourning thats 11 years ago
now yes hed be 11 though what was the good in going into mourning for
what was neither one thing nor the other the first cry was enough for
me I heard the deathwatch too ticking in the wall of course he insisted
hed go into mourning for the cat I suppose hes a man now by this time
he was an innocent boy then and a darling little fellow in his lord
Fauntleroy suit and curly hair like a prince on the stage when I saw
him at Mat Dillons he liked me too I remember they all do wait by God
yes wait yes hold on he was on the cards this morning when I laid out
the deck union with a young stranger neither dark nor fair you met
before I thought it meant him but hes no chicken nor a stranger either
besides my face was turned the other way what was the 7th card after
that the 10 of spades for a journey by land then there was a letter on
its way and scandals too the 3 queens and the 8 of diamonds for a rise
in society yes wait it all came out and 2 red 8s for new garments look
at that and didnt I dream something too yes there was something about
poetry in it I hope he hasnt long greasy hair hanging into his eyes or
standing up like a red Indian what do they go about like that for only
getting themselves and their poetry laughed at I always liked poetry
when I was a girl first I thought he was a poet like lord Byron and not
an ounce of it in his composition I thought he was quite different I
wonder is he too young hes about wait 88 I was married 88 Milly is 15
yesterday 89 what age was he then at Dillons 5 or 6 about 88 I suppose
hes 20 or more Im not too old for him if hes 23 or 24 I hope hes not
that stuckup university student sort no otherwise he wouldnt go sitting
down in the old kitchen with him taking Eppss cocoa and talking of
course he pretended to understand it all probably he told him he was
out of Trinity college hes very young to be a professor I hope hes not
a professor like Goodwin was he was a potent professor of John Jameson
they all write about some woman in their poetry well I suppose he wont
find many like me where softly sighs of love the light guitar where
poetry is in the air the blue sea and the moon shining so beautifully
coming back on the nightboat from Tarifa the lighthouse at Europa point
the guitar that fellow played was so expressive will I ever go back
there again all new faces two glancing eyes a lattice hid Ill sing that
for him theyre my eyes if hes anything of a poet two eyes as darkly
bright as loves own star arent those beautiful words as loves young
star itll be a change the Lord knows to have an intelligent person to
talk to about yourself not always listening to him and Billy Prescotts
ad and Keyess ad and Tom the Devils ad then if anything goes wrong in
their business we have to suffer Im sure hes very distinguished Id like
to meet a man like that God not those other ruck besides hes young
those fine young men I could see down in Margate strand bathingplace
from the side of the rock standing up in the sun naked like a God or
something and then plunging into the sea with them why arent all men
like that thered be some consolation for a woman like that lovely
little statue he bought I could look at him all day long curly head and
his shoulders his finger up for you to listen theres real beauty and
poetry for you I often felt I wanted to kiss him all over also his
lovely young cock there so simple I wouldnt mind taking him in my mouth
if nobody was looking as if it was asking you to suck it so clean and
white he looks with his boyish face I would too in 1/2 a minute even if
some of it went down what its only like gruel or the dew theres no
danger besides hed be so clean compared with those pigs of men I
suppose never dream of washing it from 1 years end to the other the
most of them only thats what gives the women the moustaches Im sure
itll be grand if I can only get in with a handsome young poet at my age
Ill throw them the 1st thing in the morning till I see if the wishcard
comes out or Ill try pairing the lady herself and see if he comes out
Ill read and study all I can find or learn a bit off by heart if I knew
who he likes so he wont think me stupid if he thinks all women are the
same and I can teach him the other part Ill make him feel all over him
till he half faints under me then hell write about me lover and
mistress publicly too with our 2 photographs in all the papers when he
becomes famous O but then what am I going to do about him though

no thats no way for him has he no manners nor no refinement nor no
nothing in his nature slapping us behind like that on my bottom because
I didnt call him Hugh the ignoramus that doesnt know poetry from a
cabbage thats what you get for not keeping them in their proper place
pulling off his shoes and trousers there on the chair before me so
barefaced without even asking permission and standing out that vulgar
way in the half of a shirt they wear to be admired like a priest or a
butcher or those old hypocrites in the time of Julius Caesar of course
hes right enough in his way to pass the time as a joke sure you might
as well be in bed with what with a lion God Im sure hed have something
better to say for himself an old Lion would O well I suppose its
because they were so plump and tempting in my short petticoat he
couldnt resist they excite myself sometimes its well for men all the
amount of pleasure they get off a womans body were so round and white
for them always I wished I was one myself for a change just to try with
that thing they have swelling up on you so hard and at the same time so
soft when you touch it my uncle John has a thing long I heard those
cornerboys saying passing the comer of Marrowbone lane my aunt Mary has
a thing hairy because it was dark and they knew a girl was passing it
didnt make me blush why should it either its only nature and he puts
his thing long into my aunt Marys hairy etcetera and turns out to be
you put the handle in a sweepingbrush men again all over they can pick
and choose what they please a married woman or a fast widow or a girl
for their different tastes like those houses round behind Irish street
no but were to be always chained up theyre not going to be chaining me
up no damn fear once I start I tell you for their stupid husbands
jealousy why cant we all remain friends over it instead of quarrelling
her husband found it out what they did together well naturally and if
he did can he undo it hes coronado anyway whatever he does and then he
going to the other mad extreme about the wife in Fair Tyrants of course
the man never even casts a 2nd thought on the husband or wife either
its the woman he wants and he gets her what else were we given all
those desires for Id like to know I cant help it if Im young still can
I its a wonder Im not an old shrivelled hag before my time living with
him so cold never embracing me except sometimes when hes asleep the
wrong end of me not knowing I suppose who he has any man thatd kiss a
womans bottom Id throw my hat at him after that hed kiss anything
unnatural where we havent 1 atom of any kind of expression in us all of
us the same 2 lumps of lard before ever Id do that to a man pfooh the
dirty brutes the mere thought is enough I kiss the feet of you senorita
theres some sense in that didnt he kiss our halldoor yes he did what a
madman nobody understands his cracked ideas but me still of course a
woman wants to be embraced 20 times a day almost to make her look young
no matter by who so long as to be in love or loved by somebody if the
fellow you want isnt there sometimes by the Lord God I was thinking
would I go around by the quays there some dark evening where nobodyd
know me and pick up a sailor off the sea thatd be hot on for it and not
care a pin whose I was only do it off up in a gate somewhere or one of
those wildlooking gipsies in Rathfarnham had their camp pitched near
the Bloomfield laundry to try and steal our things if they could I only
sent mine there a few times for the name model laundry sending me back
over and over some old ones odd stockings that blackguardlooking fellow
with the fine eyes peeling a switch attack me in the dark and ride me
up against the wall without a word or a murderer anybody what they do
themselves the fine gentlemen in their silk hats that K C lives up
somewhere this way coming out of Hardwicke lane the night he gave us
the fish supper on account of winning over the boxing match of course
it was for me he gave it I knew him by his gaiters and the walk and
when I turned round a minute after just to see there was a woman after
coming out of it too some filthy prostitute then he goes home to his
wife after that only I suppose the half of those sailors are rotten
again with disease O move over your big carcass out of that for the
love of Mike listen to him the winds that waft my sighs to thee so well
he may sleep and sigh the great Suggester Don Poldo de la Flora if he
knew how he came out on the cards this morning hed have something to
sigh for a dark man in some perplexity between 2 7s too in prison for
Lord knows what he does that I dont know and Im to be slooching around
down in the kitchen to get his lordship his breakfast while hes rolled
up like a mummy will I indeed did you ever see me running Id just like
to see myself at it show them attention and they treat you like dirt I
dont care what anybody says itd be much better for the world to be
governed by the women in it you wouldnt see women going and killing one
another and slaughtering when do you ever see women rolling around
drunk like they do or gambling every penny they have and losing it on
horses yes because a woman whatever she does she knows where to stop
sure they wouldnt be in the world at all only for us they dont know
what it is to be a woman and a mother how could they where would they
all of them be if they hadnt all a mother to look after them what I
never had thats why I suppose hes running wild now out at night away
from his books and studies and not living at home on account of the
usual rowy house I suppose well its a poor case that those that have a
fine son like that theyre not satisfied and I none was he not able to
make one it wasnt my fault we came together when I was watching the two
dogs up in her behind in the middle of the naked street that
disheartened me altogether I suppose I oughtnt to have buried him in
that little woolly jacket I knitted crying as I was but give it to some
poor child but I knew well Id never have another our 1st death too it
was we were never the same since O Im not going to think myself into
the glooms about that any more I wonder why he wouldnt stay the night I
felt all the time it was somebody strange he brought in instead of
roving around the city meeting God knows who nightwalkers and
pickpockets his poor mother wouldnt like that if she was alive ruining
himself for life perhaps still its a lovely hour so silent I used to
love coming home after dances the air of the night they have friends
they can talk to weve none either he wants what he wont get or its some
woman ready to stick her knife in you I hate that in women no wonder
they treat us the way they do we are a dreadful lot of bitches I
suppose its all the troubles we have makes us so snappy Im not like
that he could easy have slept in there on the sofa in the other room I
suppose he was as shy as a boy he being so young hardly 20 of me in the
next room hed have heard me on the chamber arrah what harm Dedalus I
wonder its like those names in Gibraltar Delapaz Delagracia they had
the devils queer names there father Vilaplana of Santa Maria that gave
me the rosary Rosales y OReilly in the Calle las Siete Revueltas and
Pisimbo and Mrs Opisso in Governor street O what a name Id go and drown
myself in the first river if I had a name like her O my and all the
bits of streets Paradise ramp and Bedlam ramp and Rodgers ramp and
Crutchetts ramp and the devils gap steps well small blame to me if I am
a harumscarum I know I am a bit I declare to God I dont feel a day
older than then I wonder could I get my tongue round any of the Spanish
como esta usted muy bien gracias y usted see I havent forgotten it all
I thought I had only for the grammar a noun is the name of any person
place or thing pity I never tried to read that novel cantankerous Mrs
Rubio lent me by Valera with the questions in it all upside down the
two ways I always knew wed go away in the end I can tell him the
Spanish and he tell me the Italian then hell see Im not so ignorant
what a pity he didnt stay Im sure the poor fellow was dead tired and
wanted a good sleep badly I could have brought him in his breakfast in
bed with a bit of toast so long as I didnt do it on the knife for bad
luck or if the woman was going her rounds with the watercress and
something nice and tasty there are a few olives in the kitchen he might
like I never could bear the look of them in Abrines I could do the
criada the room looks all right since I changed it the other way you
see something was telling me all the time Id have to introduce myself
not knowing me from Adam very funny wouldnt it Im his wife or pretend
we were in Spain with him half awake without a Gods notion where he is
dos huevos estrellados senor Lord the cracked things come into my head
sometimes itd be great fun supposing he stayed with us why not theres
the room upstairs empty and Millys bed in the back room he could do his
writing and studies at the table in there for all the scribbling he
does at it and if he wants to read in bed in the morning like me as hes
making the breakfast for 1 he can make it for 2 Im sure Im not going to
take in lodgers off the street for him if he takes a gesabo of a house
like this Id love to have a long talk with an intelligent welleducated
person Id have to get a nice pair of red slippers like those Turks with
the fez used to sell or yellow and a nice semitransparent morning gown
that I badly want or a peachblossom dressing jacket like the one long
ago in Walpoles only 8/6 or 18/6 Ill just give him one more chance Ill
get up early in the morning Im sick of Cohens old bed in any case I
might go over to the markets to see all the vegetables and cabbages and
tomatoes and carrots and all kinds of splendid fruits all coming in
lovely and fresh who knows whod be the 1st man Id meet theyre out
looking for it in the morning Mamy Dillon used to say they are and the
night too that was her massgoing Id love a big juicy pear now to melt
in your mouth like when I used to be in the longing way then Ill throw
him up his eggs and tea in the moustachecup she gave him to make his
mouth bigger I suppose hed like my nice cream too I know what Ill do
Ill go about rather gay not too much singing a bit now and then mi fa
pieta Masetto then Ill start dressing myself to go out presto non son
piu forte Ill put on my best shift and drawers let him have a good
eyeful out of that to make his micky stand for him Ill let him know if
thats what he wanted that his wife is fucked yes and damn well fucked
too up to my neck nearly not by him 5 or 6 times handrunning theres the
mark of his spunk on the clean sheet I wouldnt bother to even iron it
out that ought to satisfy him if you dont believe me feel my belly
unless I made him stand there and put him into me Ive a mind to tell
him every scrap and make him do it out in front of me serve him right
its all his own fault if I am an adulteress as the thing in the gallery
said O much about it if thats all the harm ever we did in this vale of
tears God knows its not much doesnt everybody only they hide it I
suppose thats what a woman is supposed to be there for or He wouldnt
have made us the way He did so attractive to men then if he wants to
kiss my bottom Ill drag open my drawers and bulge it right out in his
face as large as life he can stick his tongue 7 miles up my hole as hes
there my brown part then Ill tell him I want £ 1 or perhaps 30/- Ill
tell him I want to buy underclothes then if he gives me that well he
wont be too bad I dont want to soak it all out of him like other women
do I could often have written out a fine cheque for myself and write
his name on it for a couple of pounds a few times he forgot to lock it
up besides he wont spend it Ill let him do it off on me behind provided
he doesnt smear all my good drawers O I suppose that cant be helped Ill
do the indifferent 1 or 2 questions Ill know by the answers when hes
like that he cant keep a thing back I know every turn in him Ill
tighten my bottom well and let out a few smutty words smellrump or lick
my shit or the first mad thing comes into my head then Ill suggest
about yes O wait now sonny my turn is coming Ill be quite gay and
friendly over it O but I was forgetting this bloody pest of a thing
pfooh you wouldnt know which to laugh or cry were such a mixture of
plum and apple no Ill have to wear the old things so much the better
itll be more pointed hell never know whether he did it or not there
thats good enough for you any old thing at all then Ill wipe him off me
just like a business his omission then Ill go out Ill have him eying up
at the ceiling where is she gone now make him want me thats the only
way a quarter after what an unearthly hour I suppose theyre just
getting up in China now combing out their pigtails for the day well
soon have the nuns ringing the angelus theyve nobody coming in to spoil
their sleep except an odd priest or two for his night office or the
alarmclock next door at cockshout clattering the brains out of itself
let me see if I can doze off 1 2 3 4 5 what kind of flowers are those
they invented like the stars the wallpaper in Lombard street was much
nicer the apron he gave me was like that something only I only wore it
twice better lower this lamp and try again so as I can get up early Ill
go to Lambes there beside Findlaters and get them to send us some
flowers to put about the place in case he brings him home tomorrow
today I mean no no Fridays an unlucky day first I want to do the place
up someway the dust grows in it I think while Im asleep then we can
have music and cigarettes I can accompany him first I must clean the
keys of the piano with milk whatll I wear shall I wear a white rose or
those fairy cakes in Liptons I love the smell of a rich big shop at 7
1/2d a lb or the other ones with the cherries in them and the pinky
sugar 11d a couple of lbs of those a nice plant for the middle of the
table Id get that cheaper in wait wheres this I saw them not long ago I
love flowers Id love to have the whole place swimming in roses God of
heaven theres nothing like nature the wild mountains then the sea and
the waves rushing then the beautiful country with the fields of oats
and wheat and all kinds of things and all the fine cattle going about
that would do your heart good to see rivers and lakes and flowers all
sorts of shapes and smells and colours springing up even out of the
ditches primroses and violets nature it is as for them saying theres no
God I wouldnt give a snap of my two fingers for all their learning why
dont they go and create something I often asked him atheists or
whatever they call themselves go and wash the cobbles off themselves
first then they go howling for the priest and they dying and why why
because theyre afraid of hell on account of their bad conscience ah yes
I know them well who was the first person in the universe before there
was anybody that made it all who ah that they dont know neither do I so
there you are they might as well try to stop the sun from rising
tomorrow the sun shines for you he said the day we were lying among the
rhododendrons on Howth head in the grey tweed suit and his straw hat
the day I got him to propose to me yes first I gave him the bit of
seedcake out of my mouth and it was leapyear like now yes 16 years ago
my God after that long kiss I near lost my breath yes he said I was a
flower of the mountain yes so we are flowers all a womans body yes that
was one true thing he said in his life and the sun shines for you today
yes that was why I liked him because I saw he understood or felt what a
woman is and I knew I could always get round him and I gave him all the
pleasure I could leading him on till he asked me to say yes and I
wouldnt answer first only looked out over the sea and the sky I was
thinking of so many things he didnt know of Mulvey and Mr Stanhope and
Hester and father and old captain Groves and the sailors playing all
birds fly and I say stoop and washing up dishes they called it on the
pier and the sentry in front of the governors house with the thing
round his white helmet poor devil half roasted and the Spanish girls
laughing in their shawls and their tall combs and the auctions in the
morning the Greeks and the jews and the Arabs and the devil knows who
else from all the ends of Europe and Duke street and the fowl market
all clucking outside Larby Sharons and the poor donkeys slipping half
asleep and the vague fellows in the cloaks asleep in the shade on the
steps and the big wheels of the carts of the bulls and the old castle
thousands of years old yes and those handsome Moors all in white and
turbans like kings asking you to sit down in their little bit of a shop
and Ronda with the old windows of the posadas 2 glancing eyes a lattice
hid for her lover to kiss the iron and the wineshops half open at night
and the castanets and the night we missed the boat at Algeciras the
watchman going about serene with his lamp and O that awful deepdown
torrent O and the sea the sea crimson sometimes like fire and the
glorious sunsets and the figtrees in the Alameda gardens yes and all
the queer little streets and the pink and blue and yellow houses and
the rosegardens and the jessamine and geraniums and cactuses and
Gibraltar as a girl where I was a Flower of the mountain yes when I put
the rose in my hair like the Andalusian girls used or shall I wear a
red yes and how he kissed me under the Moorish wall and I thought well
as well him as another and then I asked him with my eyes to ask again
yes and then he asked me would I yes to say yes my mountain flower and
first I put my arms around him yes and drew him down to me so he could
feel my breasts all perfume yes and his heart was going like mad and
yes I said yes I will Yes. —The islanders, Mulligan said to Haines casually, speak frequently of
the collector of prepuces. If we were all suddenly somebody else. I’d train him by kindness, so I
would, if he was my dog. )_ Lyum! Look. )_ You are a perfect stranger. There was weeping and gnashing of teeth over that. Our interview of this morning has left on me a
deep impression. A baton cool protruding. The R. Soup, joint and sweet. —Let him in. Citron, Minnie Watchman, P. Lean people long
mouths. Sir Leopold heard on the upfloor cry on high and he wondered
what cry that it was whether of child or woman and I marvel, said he,
that it be not come or now. Married to Bloom, to greaseabloom. Against the wall. To where? Aha! Which auction
rooms?. Just C. —Certainly, John Eglinton mused, of all great men he is the most
enigmatic. Let me see. They listened. Swell the bust. Liverpool ring which jockeyed the Galway harbour scheme. A lyrical tenor if you like. KITTY-KATE: I forgot myself. intrigues by. Fellow, the
name of Antonio, done that. Get rid of him quickly. And they are
throbbing: heroes’ hearts. Got his
majority for the heroic defence of Rorke’s Drift. He stooped
and lifted the valance. For
instance eunuchs. Buckled he
is. Better add postscript. Come, Kinch. —Yes, begad. She put the comether on him, sweet and
twentysix. Wonder if I’ll meet him today. Her griddlecakes done to a goldenbrown hue
and queen Ann’s pudding of delightful creaminess had won golden
opinions from all because she had a lucky hand also for lighting a
fire, dredge in the fine selfraising flour and always stir in the same
direction, then cream the milk and sugar and whisk well the white of
eggs though she didn’t like the eating part when there were any people
that made her shy and often she wondered why you couldn’t eat something
poetical like violets or roses and they would have a beautifully
appointed drawingroom with pictures and engravings and the photograph
of grandpapa Giltrap’s lovely dog Garryowen that almost talked it was
so human and chintz covers for the chairs and that silver toastrack in
Clery’s summer jumble sales like they have in rich houses. Know where that is?

—Queenstown harbour, Stephen replied. The man of science like the
man in the street has to face hardheaded facts that cannot be blinked
and explain them as best he can. That’s the secret of it. 6. House of. Lovely spot it
must be: the garden of the world, big lazy leaves to float about on,
cactuses, flowery meads, snaky lianas they call them. Landlord never dies they say. THE MOTHER: _(A green rill of bile trickling from a side of her
mouth. The
greeneyed monster. —It’s a wonderful tale, Haines said, bringing them to halt again. h. Sensitive. The disk shot down the groove, wobbled a while, ceased and ogled them:
six. And you refused. I want his life still
to be his, mine to be mine. —I am afraid I am due at the _Homestead. What had been his hypothetical singular solutions?

Parlour games (dominos, halma, tiddledywinks, spilikins, cup and ball,
nap, spoil five, bezique, twentyfive, beggar my neighbour, draughts,
chess or backgammon): embroidery, darning or knitting for the
policeaided clothing society: musical duets, mandoline and guitar,
piano and flute, guitar and piano: legal scrivenery or envelope
addressing: biweekly visits to variety entertainments: commercial
activity as pleasantly commanding and pleasingly obeyed mistress
proprietress in a cool dairy shop or warm cigar divan: the clandestine
satisfaction of erotic irritation in masculine brothels, state
inspected and medically controlled: social visits, at regular
infrequent prevented intervals and with regular frequent preventive
superintendence, to and from female acquaintances of recognised
respectability in the vicinity: courses of evening instruction
specially designed to render liberal instruction agreeable. Let them go and fight the Boers!

THE BAWD: Listen to who’s talking! Hasn’t the soldier a right to go
with his girl? He gave him the coward’s blow. Cheek me, I dare you. Bantam Lyons doubted an instant, leering: then thrust the outspread
sheets back on Mr Bloom’s arms. It’s just
the cutest snappiest line out. O, look what I found in professor Goodwin’s hat! All we
laughed. Then darkened deathchamber. Ladies find Wonderworker especially useful, a pleasant surprise
when they note delightful result like a cool drink of fresh spring
water on a sultry summer’s day. Greater love than this, he said, no man hath that a man lay
down his wife for his friend. Money is power. You what? The water rate, Mr Boylan. What syllabus of intellectual pursuits was simultaneously possible?

Snapshot photography, comparative study of religions, folklore relative
to various amatory and superstitious practices, contemplation of the
celestial constellations. Loose sand
and shellgrit crusted her bare feet. _Matcham often thinks of the masterstroke by which he won
the laughing witch who now_. —I’m weak, he gasped. A. —How much, sir? asked the old woman. P. As for Mr Bloom he could neither make head or tail of the whole
business and he was just asking himself what possible connection when
the sailor of his own accord turned to the other occupants of the
shelter with the remark:

—I seen him shoot two eggs off two bottles at fifty yards over his
shoulder. Alexander’s _Throwaway_, b. _(Zoe Higgins, a young whore in a sapphire slip, closed with three
bronze buckles, a slim black velvet fillet round her throat, nods,
trips down the steps and accosts him. —And poor Gumley is down there too, so he told me, minding stones for
the corporation. Seems to a secret touch
telling me memory. Cowley sang:

_—M’appari tutt’amor:
Il mio sguardo l’incontr. A plagiarist. Gob, he’s not as green as he’s cabbagelooking. 3. Haroun Al Raschid. The dead of Dublin
from Prospect and Mount Jerome in white sheepskin overcoats and black
goatfell cloaks arise and appear to many. How young she was and radiant (Lalage were scarce fair
beside her) in her yellow shoes and frock of muslin, I do not know the
right name of it. —O yes, J. _(In the cone of the searchlight behind the coalscuttle, ollave,
holyeyed, the bearded figure of Mananaun MacLir broods, chin on knees. )_ I thought you were of good stock by your accent. Barney Kiernan’s I promised to meet them. When you hold out the fork. LYNCH: Ba!

STEPHEN: Anyway, who wants two gestures to illustrate a loaf and a jug?
This movement illustrates the loaf and jug of bread or wine in Omar. Fourteen hands high. They bundled their books away, pencils clacking, pages rustling. And last, beneath a canopy of cloth of gold came the
reverend Father O’Flynn attended by Malachi and Patrick. Very warm
morning. —O hell! says I. Love and War someone is. I hope you are going to
say a good word for Richard, don’t you know, for my sake. Thought he was asleep first. Click does the trick. He made a comic face and whined, rubbing his knee:

—The accumulation of the _anno Domini_. Rummaging. )_

     My methods are new and are causing surprise. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE. Give’s a shake of peppe, you there. Where are your wits?

Touch me. _(She
puts out her hand inquisitively. ’s elemental. I know. Stopped. Drink me piping hot. Dinna forget the cowslips for hersel. Fool and his money. The world is mine. _When my country
takes her place among. Orient and immortal wheat
standing from everlasting to everlasting. Her pale blue
scarf loose in the wind with her hair. —Beg pardon, the sailor said. More in her line. Kind of a form in his
mind’s eye. Cup of tea now. Zoe bends over the table. Invece, Lei si sacrifica. Quite
dark, regular brunette, black. Who’s the old ballocks you were talking to?

—Old Troy, says I, was in the force. —Tooraloo, Lenehan said. He smiles uneasily. The
word known to all men. An instant later his head
appeared in the door opposite and said: Meet me at Westland Row station
at ten past eleven. The seer raised his hand to heaven, murmuring: The
vendetta of Mananaun! The sage repeated: _Lex talionis_. He never heard. What play of forces, inducing inertia, rendered departure undesirable?

The lateness of the hour, rendering procrastinatory: the obscurity of
the night, rendering invisible: the uncertainty of thoroughfares,
rendering perilous: the necessity for repose, obviating movement: the
proximity of an occupied bed, obviating research: the anticipation of
warmth (human) tempered with coolness (linen), obviating desire and
rendering desirable: the statue of Narcissus, sound without echo,
desired desire. —And leave it to my hands, she said. J. The ultimate return. Scrape. He heard, deaf Pat. In white silence:
appealing. Not a single lifeboat would float and the
firehose all burst. —Who’s dead? says Bob Doran. Molecules all change. E. Or she knew him, that second I say, and was
but creature of her creature, _vergine madre, figlia di tuo figlio_, or
she knew him not and then stands she in the one denial or ignorancy
with Peter Piscator who lives in the house that Jack built and with
Joseph the joiner patron of the happy demise of all unhappy marriages,
_parceque M. Master
Dignam on his left turned as he turned. V. Old thieves’ dodge. They made ready to cross O’Connell street. _ Leopold,
Patrick, Andrew, David, George, be thou anointed!

_(Bloom assumes a mantle of cloth of gold and puts on a ruby ring. I’m not a
believer myself, that is to say. Ward for incurables there. Ay. Archimedes. Must get it. Human life. —Wait awhile, Mr Dedalus said threateningly. Like
that priest they are this morning: we have sinned: we have suffered. —O, damn you and your Paris fads! Buck Mulligan said. A thrush. Shame
really. Drugs age you after mental excitement. Ugh, that rat’s tail wriggling!
Five bob I gave. —Yes, sir, the chemist said. Having
delivered himself of this rebuke he saluted those present on the by and
repaired to the door. I mean for singing purposes. —Ay, ay, sighed the sailor, looking down on his manly chest. Courting death. The seas’ ruler, he gazed southward over the bay, empty save for the
smokeplume of the mailboat vague on the bright skyline and a sail
tacking by the Muglins. His wife I forgot he’s
not married or his landlady ought to have picked out those threads for
him. Kind Kristyann wil
yu help yung man hoose frend tuk bungellow kee tu find plais whear tu
lay crown of his hed 2 night. Slack hour: won’t be many there. But if not? No, nothing has
happened. Dare it. Those mornings in the cattlemarket, the
beasts lowing in their pens, branded sheep, flop and fall of dung, the
breeders in hobnailed boots trudging through the litter, slapping a
palm on a ripemeated hindquarter, there’s a prime one, unpeeled
switches in their hands. What is
home without Plumtree’s potted meat? Incomplete. A man. _(He lifts his mutilated ashen face moonwards and bays lugubriously. Seekers on the great quest. Today it is. Shrunken skull. Gaudy colour warns you off. You can do me a favour, Mr Dedalus,
with some of your literary friends. )_ Thou thoughtest as how thou wastest
invisible. Those races are on today. They ought to invent
something to stop that. Better give way
only half way the way of a man with a maid. I want to
know. B. —Later on, Haines said. And Able was I ere I saw Elba. It runs in our family. Full of a dure. But as for that the two misdemeanants, wrapped up as they
largely were in one another, could safely afford to ignore it as they
very largely did till the matter was put in the hands of a solicitor
who filed a petition for the party wronged in due course. Both
indurated by early domestic training and an inherited tenacity of
heterodox resistance professed their disbelief in many orthodox
religious, national, social and ethical doctrines. Lenehan opened most genial arms. Inwit’s agenbite. person you mentioned. They clasped hands loudly outside Reddy and Daughter’s. )_ Dance. _

_—Il croit?_

_—Mon père, oui. Here, Jock braw
Hielentman’s your barleybree. Listen to the births and deaths in the _Irish all for Ireland
Independent,_ and I’ll thank you and the marriages. Who have you now like John Philpot Curran? Psha!

—Well, J. A scheme for the repristination of passenger
and goods traffics over Irish waterways, when freed from weedbeds. But he wants just a little puff. _(She darts to the piano and bangs
chords on it with crossed arms. Drunks cover distance double quick. Father Conmee turned the corner and walked along the North Circular
road. —Come in. If I had black glasses. _Stephanos,_ my crown. Seeing they were all looking at his chest he accommodatingly dragged
his shirt more open so that on top of the timehonoured symbol of the
mariner’s hope and rest they had a full view of the figure 16 and a
young man’s sideface looking frowningly rather. Agenbite. Gob, the devil wouldn’t stop him till he got hold of the bloody tin
anyhow and out with him and little Alf hanging on to his elbow and he
shouting like a stuck pig, as good as any bloody play in the Queen’s
royal theatre:

—Where is he till I murder him?

And Ned and J. Describe them. After he woke me last night same dream or was it? Wait. To which cold douche referring to downfall and so on the keeper
concurred but nevertheless held to his main view. —Know how to keep them off? he inquired generally. Chardenal’s French primer. )_ I’ve a rendezvous in the morning. Lenehan began to paw the tissues up from the floor, grunting as he
stooped twice. Then the spokes: sports, sports, sports: and the
hub big: college. Say Robinson Crusoe was
true to life. And he said: _Another victory like that and we are done
for. CORNY KELLEHER: _(Laughs. That is to say he brought the
poison a hundred years before another person whose name I forget
brought the food. Your God was a jew. She’s lame! O!

Mr Bloom watched her as she limped away. He was but eleven months and nine days old and, though still a
tiny toddler, was just beginning to lisp his first babyish words. They will violate
the secrets of your bottom drawer. —Excuse me, sir, Mr Bloom said beside them. Mrs Marion Bloom has left off clothes of
all descriptions. Tarnally dog
gone my shins if this beent the bestest puttiest longbreak yet. He’s over all his troubles. Please tell me what you think of poor me. )_

THE GONG: Bang Bang Bla Bak Blud Bugg Bloo. He’s gone. )_

BLOOM: _(Whimpers. I was hidden in cheap pink paper that
smelt of rock oil. But to
think of your mother begging you with her last breath to kneel down and
pray for her. Secured the verdict cleverly by a length. There he is, sure enough, my
bold Larry, leaning against the sugarbin in his shirtsleeves watching
the aproned curate swab up with mop and bucket. Why solitary (ipsorelative)?

     Brothers and sisters had he none. They list. What inchoate corollary statement was consequently suppressed by the
host?

A statement explanatory of his absence on the occasion of the interment
of Mrs Mary Dedalus (born Goulding), 26 June 1903, vigil of the
anniversary of the decease of Rudolph Bloom (born Virag). However, reverting to the original, there were on the
other hand others who had forced their way to the top from the lowest
rung by the aid of their bootstraps. —And after all, says John Wyse, why can’t a jew love his country like
the next fellow?

—Why not? says J. _(He breathes in deep agitation, swallowing gulps of air, questions,
hopes, crubeens for her supper, things to tell her, excuse, desire,
spellbound. At Charenton I watched them. There, as in a retrospective arrangement, a mirror
within a mirror (hey, presto!), he beholdeth himself. )_

FIRST WATCH: Caught in the act. Standing? His head might come up some
day above ground in a landslip with his hand pointing. Tankards and miss Kennedy. Bloom with brief
accompanying note commencing (erroneously): Dear Madam. —Who’s that? Ned Lambert asked. She was humming. Mr Deasy said I was to
copy them off the board, sir. ?

BLOOM: _(Pawing the heather abjectly. A. Weight for age. Mr Bloom admired the caretaker’s prosperous bulk. Don’t want it they throw it at you. Queens of Dublin society. How mingled
and imperfect are all our sublunary joys. Lascivious people. He liked to read at stool. —What? says Alf. The incumbent they called him. Tap. The shopman let two volumes fall on the counter. One of those mixed
middlings he is. Plait baskets. For regarding Believe-on-Me they said it was nought else but
notion and they could conceive no thought of it for, first,
Two-in-the-Bush whither she ticed them was the very goodliest grot and
in it were four pillows on which were four tickets with these words
printed on them, Pickaback and Topsyturvy and Shameface and Cheek by
Jowl and, second, for that foul plague Allpox and the monsters they
cared not for them for Preservative had given them a stout shield of
oxengut and, third, that they might take no hurt neither from Offspring
that was that wicked devil by virtue of this same shield which was
named Killchild. High tea. I
never see the like since I was born. But they’re as close
as damn it. Money I haven’t. Why does he send to one who is a
_buonaroba,_ a bay where all men ride, a maid of honour with a
scandalous girlhood, a lordling to woo for him? He was himself a lord
of language and had made himself a coistrel gentleman and he had
written _Romeo and Juliet_. A child Conmee saved from pandies. To no end gathered; vainly then released,
forthflowing, wending back: loom of the moon. Swindle in it somewhere. Mercurial Malachi. You see? Do you think that’s a good idea?

The foreman moved his scratching hand to his lower ribs and scratched
there quietly. And the best jumpers and racers? And the best admirals
and generals we’ve got? Tell me that. —Twopence each, the huckster said. House of mourning. Speak, woman,
sacred lifegiver!

CISSY CAFFREY: _(Alarmed, seizes Private Carr’s sleeve. Naked wheatbellied sin. )_
Take down his trousers without loss of time. ) is the
able and popular master, he is reported by eyewitnesses as having
stated that once a woman has let the cat into the bag (an esthete’s
allusion, presumably, to one of the most complicated and marvellous of
all nature’s processes—the act of sexual congress) she must let it out
again or give it life, as he phrased it, to save her own. When we hid behind the tree at Crumlin. )_ Tremendously teapot! London’s teapot and I’m
simply teapot all over me! _(She rubs sides with him. But do. We are their
harps. Molly in her shift in
Lombard street west, hair down. He opens it and
shows it full of polonies, kippered herrings, Findon haddies and
tightpacked pills. —Yes, says J. Address. —To be sure, poor fellow. Best time to spray plants too in
the shade after the sun. —Let him! she said with a pert toss of her head and a piquant tilt of
her nose. Was it there?

It was in the corresponding pocket of the trousers which he had worn on
the day but one preceding. Five Dig. From the
cool shadow of the doorway he saw the horses pass Parliament street,
harness and glossy pasterns in sunlight shimmering. M. _

High, a high note pealed in the treble clear. Should a girl tell? No, a thousand times no. The coals were reddening. Swell of her calf. And whiles they spake the door of the castle was opened and there
nighed them a mickle noise as of many that sat there at meat. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work. He threw down among them a crumpled paper ball. Years and years I
loved you, O, my son, my firstborn, when you lay in my womb. STEPHEN: Doesn’t matter a rambling damn. Mary’s Abbey) and masshouse (Adam and Eve’s
tavern): the proscription of their national costumes in penal laws and
jewish dress acts: the restoration in Chanah David of Zion and the
possibility of Irish political autonomy or devolution. That book I must change
for her. )_ I was in my teens, a growing boy. —The tramper Synge is looking for you, he said, to murder you. He’s no more dead than you are. Bronze whiteness. Mooney’s en ville, Mooney’s sur mer, the Moira, Larchet’s, Holles
street hospital, Burke’s. Yes, bronze from anear, by gold from afar, heard steel from anear,
hoofs ring from afar, and heard steelhoofs ringhoof ringsteel. Lord John Corley some called him
and his genealogy came about in this wise. _(They grab at each other’s hair, claw at each other and spit. Might take an objection. Impetuous fellow! Strength
of character had never been Reggy Wylie’s strong point and he who would
woo and win Gerty MacDowell must be a man among men. I see the
idea. The girl there. My missus sang there once. _Laetabuntur in cubilibus suis_. Miss Kennedy, pouring now a fulldrawn tea, grimaced and prayed:

—O, don’t remind me of him for mercy’ sake!

—But wait till I tell you, miss Douce entreated. )_
Hello, Bloom! Mrs Bloom dressed yet?

BLOOM: _(In flunkey’s prune plush coat and kneebreeches, buff stockings
and powdered wig. Winsomely she on Bloohimwhom smiled. How much are they?

—Fourpence, sir. Describe the alterations effected in the disposition of the articles of
furniture. But. Houses, lines of houses, streets, miles of
pavements, piledup bricks, stones. Long John is backing him, they say. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www. He stopped. )_ And he, a bachelor, how. Professor MacHugh came from the inner office. The carriage steered left for Finglas road. Smarts they still, sickness soothing: in twelve
moons thrice an hundred. If I threw myself down? Reuben
J’s son must have swallowed a good bellyful of that sewage. Mad Fanny and his other
sister Mrs Dickinson driving about with scarlet harness. Big Benben. What anagrams had he made on his name in youth?

Leopold Bloom
Ellpodbomool
Molldopeloob
Bollopedoom
Old Ollebo, M. _—Bi i dho husht,_ says he. A just and homely word. )_ Beautiful! Give us a breather! When you
took your seat with womanish care, lifting your billowy flounces, on
the smoothworn throne. And when I sent her for Molly’s Paisley shawl to
Prescott’s by the way that ad I must, carrying home the change in her
stocking! Clever little minx. —Why, the sailor replied, relaxing to a certain extent under the magic
influence of diamond cut diamond, it might be a matter of ten years. Behind her lord, his helpmate, bing awast to Romeville. )_ Your classic curves, beautiful
immortal, I was glad to look on you, to praise you, a thing of beauty,
almost to pray. _

What among other data did the second volume of the work in question
contain?

The name of a decisive battle (forgotten), frequently remembered by a
decisive officer, major Brian Cooper Tweedy (remembered). )_ Another!

BLOOM: _(Screams. Zrads
and zrads, zrads, zrads. A Palgrave Murphy boat was put off the ways at Alexandra
basin, the only launch that year. —A shrew, John Eglinton said shrewdly, is not a useful portal of
discovery, one should imagine. This ad, you see. —Come on up, Martin Cunningham said to the subsheriff. _Ora pro nobis_. With a cock with a carra. His
errors are volitional and are the portals of discovery. There he keened a wailing rune. —As decent a little man as ever wore a hat, Mr Dedalus said. , who stood on Arran quay outside Mrs M. —Directly, said he, creaking to go, albeit lingering. Hereupon Punch Costello dinged with his fist upon the board and would
sing a bawdy catch _Staboo Stabella_ about a wench that was put in pod
of a jolly swashbuckler in Almany which he did straightways now attack:
_The first three months she was not well, Staboo,_ when here nurse
Quigley from the door angerly bid them hist ye should shame you nor was
it not meet as she remembered them being her mind was to have all
orderly against lord Andrew came for because she was jealous that no
gasteful turmoil might shorten the honour of her guard. —Breakdown, Martin Cunningham said. Supposed to be well connected. O well, does
no harm. Maidenhead inside. Would you like a cup, ma’am?

—No, thank you, sir, the old woman said, slipping the ring of the
milkcan on her forearm and about to go. F. Tank one believed: miss Kenn when she: that doll he was: she doll: the
tank. —Half one, Terry, says John Wyse, and a hands up. _(He follows, followed by the sniffing terrier. The sailor lugged out from a case he had a pair of greenish goggles
which he very slowly hooked over his nose and both ears. —Who? says I. Je ne crois pas
en l’existence de Dieu. —Fine lump of a woman all the same, the _soi-disant_ townclerk Henry
Campbell remarked, and plenty of her. Room whirls back. Pause. Wiped his nose in curtain
too. BLOOM: The friend of man. Sweetheart, goodbye!

Jingle. (Mr Geo. And blind too,
poor fellow. I cure fits or money refunded. —Yes, I suppose it would be, he said. Her
hat sank at once. They stopped. Cooks rats in your soup, he appetisingly
added, the chinks does. Nowhere in particular. Of
course it’s all paradox, don’t you know, Hughes and hews and hues, the
colour, but it’s so typical the way he works it out. Silent with awe and
pity I went to her bedside. Though it was no concern of theirs
absolutely if he regarded her with affection, carried away by a wave of
folly. He came, he came, he did not stay. Recite the second part (minor) of the legend. on
the morning of 27 June 1886 at the medical hall of Francis Dennehy, 17
Church street, Ennis) after having, though not in consequence of
having, purchased at 3. Except scales up
and down, girls learning. Miss Kennedy smirked, disserving,
coral lips, at first, at second. Live for ever practically. _(He stretches out his arms, sighs again and curls his body. _

His slim hand with a wave graced echo and fall. Verdict: overdose. Mr Bloom thoroughly acquiesced in the general gist of this though the
mystical finesse involved was a bit out of his sublunary depth still he
felt bound to enter a demurrer on the head of simple, promptly
rejoining:

—Simple? I shouldn’t think that is the proper word. _

_—Farabutto! Mortacci sui!_

_—Ma ascolta! Cinque la testa più. He thinks of a drizzling night in Hatch street, hard by the
bonded stores there, the first. What was that
about some young student and a picnic? He creased out the letter at his
side, reading it slowly as he chewed, sopping another die of bread in
the gravy and raising it to his mouth. —And our eyes are on Europe, says the citizen. T. A quart of ale is a dish for
a king. Result of the rockinghorse races. Then in last switchback
lumbering up and down bump mashtub sort of viceroy and reine relish for
tublumber bumpshire rose. He, B,
enjoyed the distinction of being close to Erin’s uncrowned king in the
flesh when the thing occurred on the historic _fracas_ when the fallen
leader’s, who notoriously stuck to his guns to the last drop even when
clothed in the mantle of adultery, (leader’s) trusty henchmen to the
number of ten or a dozen or possibly even more than that penetrated
into the printing works of the _Insuppressible_ or no it was _United
Ireland_ (a by no means by the by appropriate appellative) and broke up
the typecases with hammers or something like that all on account of
some scurrilous effusions from the facile pens of the O’Brienite
scribes at the usual mudslinging occupation reflecting on the erstwhile
tribune’s private morals. He entered softly. Parlour magic. Little hand it was: now big. Sweny’s in Lincoln place. No-one would have thought the end was so near. Really terrible. Iagogogo!

BLOOM: _(Smiles yellowly at the three whores. )_ And to such delights has Metchnikoff inoculated
anthropoid apes. He liked thick giblet soup, nutty gizzards, a stuffed roast heart,
liverslices fried with crustcrumbs, fried hencods’ roes. Baraabum. The ring of bay and
skyline held a dull green mass of liquid. He walked cheerfully towards the mosque of the baths. I do not like
that other world she wrote. A seachange this, brown eyes saltblue. The harp that
once or twice. Blmstup. Ours the white death and the ruddy birth. (_honoris causa_), Bloomville, Dundrum) and mentioned
in court and fashionable intelligence (Mr and Mrs Leopold Bloom have
left Kingstown for England). Prr. Lick it up smokinghot, thick sugary. We know what put
English gold in his pocket. Of course. )_

MAGINNI: _(Clipclaps glovesilent hands. Wife and six
children at home. (Dunsink
time). Iubilantium te virginum. )_ You call it a festivity. Travel round in front of the sun, steal a day’s march on him. He’s an excellent man to organise. Haines came in from the doorway and said quietly:

—That woman is coming up with the milk. Mind your cornflowers. )_

THE DAUGHTERS OF ERIN:

     Kidney of Bloom, pray for us
     Flower of the Bath, pray for us
     Mentor of Menton, pray for us
     Canvasser for the Freeman, pray for us
     Charitable Mason, pray for us
     Wandering Soap, pray for us
     Sweets of Sin, pray for us
     Music without Words, pray for us
     Reprover of the Citizen, pray for us
     Friend of all Frillies, pray for us
     Midwife Most Merciful, pray for us
     Potato Preservative against Plague and Pestilence, pray for us. Hokypoky penny a lump. If
not from the man. —He was raving all night about a black panther, Stephen said. Tenors get wom. All waited. two and six. And as the ends
and ultimates of all things accord in some mean and measure with their
inceptions and originals, that same multiplicit concordance which leads
forth growth from birth accomplishing by a retrogressive metamorphosis
that minishing and ablation towards the final which is agreeable unto
nature so is it with our subsolar being. Hardy
annuals he presents her with. BLOOM: _(Humbly kisses her long hair. MAGEEGLINJOHN: Names! What’s in a name?

BEST: That is my name, Richard, don’t you know. Well it’s God’s acre for them. A thing of beauty, don’t
you know, Yeats says, or I mean, Keats says. She has something to put in
them. —Did you put in the books? Boody asked. The other trotting round
with a fare. Three pounds twelve
you got, two notes, one sovereign, two crowns, if youth but knew. g. Flag of
distress. She scaled just eleven stone nine. Must be a
corporation meeting today. I remember. But you were delighted when Esther Osvalt’s
shoe went on you: girl I knew in Paris. Always have fresh greens then. Mat Dillon and his bevy of daughters: Tiny, Atty, Floey, Maimy,
Louy, Hetty. So a fellow coming in late
can see what turn is on and what turns are over. Meet you knocking around. _Fair Tyrants_ by James
Lovebirch. Got her hand crushed by old Tom Wall’s son. But Gerty’s crowning
glory was her wealth of wonderful hair. Three and six
I gave for the frame. , the reverend T. _(The crossexamination proceeds_ re _Bloom and the bucket. _ British Beatitudes! _Retamplatan digidi boumboum_. Now if I did that at a banquet. Edy Boardman asked Tommy Caffrey was he done and he said yes so then
she buttoned up his little knickerbockers for him and told him to run
off and play with Jacky and to be good now and not to fight. Trousers. All up a plumtree. Me? No. When three it’s
night. Tuned probably. Sheer force of natural genius,
that. I am the Virag who disclosed the Sex Secrets of Monks and Maidens. I suppose she is in
heaven if there is a heaven. No use disturbing her. Hello. From a
hill above a corpsestrewn plain a general speaking to his officers,
leaned upon his spear. There is a young student comes here some evenings named Bannon his
cousins or something are big swells and he sings Boylan’s (I was on the
pop of writing Blazes Boylan’s) song about those seaside girls. Mary of Egypt and S. All who wish you well hope this for you. Nothing, as it seems, there of rash or violent. Bloom
approaches Zoe. A ten shilling house. He’s in
his sanctum with Lenehan. Jousts, slush and uproar of battles, the frozen deathspew of
the slain, a shout of spearspikes baited with men’s bloodied guts. —L, Mr Bloom said. Not so bad then. Free medical and legal
advice, solution of doubles and other problems. T. —Going over next week to stew. 1. Keep, keep, keep to the right. C. With the Bannons. And the sergeant grinning
up. ZOE: _(Pulling at Florry. Silly lips of that chap. For what creature was the door of egress a door of ingress?

For a cat. Maybe, like Socrates, he had a midwife to mother as he
had a shrew to wife. A strip of torn envelope peeped from under the dimpled pillow. Sleeping
draughts. Jingle. She set free sudden in rebound her nipped elastic garter
smackwarm against her smackable a woman’s warmhosed thigh. : at an angle of 45° to
the terrestrial equator. Thick feet that woman has in the white stockings. In the gap of her dark den furtive, rainbedraggled,
Bridie Kelly stands. )_ No objection to French lozenges?
_(He nods. Miss Kennedy with manners transposed the teatray down to an upturned
lithia crate, safe from eyes, low. One pound seven, say. Her hair is scant and
lank. Eat or be eaten. The mourners moved away slowly without aim, by devious paths, staying
at whiles to read a name on a tomb. Three bob I lent him in Meagher’s. I’m English. These timely reflections anent the brutes of the field
occupied his mind somewhat distracted from Stephen’s words while the
ship of the street was manœuvring and Stephen went on about the highly
interesting old. Third hint. Why? What happened in the name of God?

—You were making tea, Stephen said, and went across the landing to get
more hot water. Two. Devils if they lose sixpence. )_ Overdrawn. —O, my corns! he said plaintively. Amen. God’s
time is 12. —Bloom, says he. Black. She regards it and Bloom with dumb moist
lips. He is older now (you and I may whisper it) and a trifle
stooped in the shoulders yet in the whirligig of years a grave dignity
has come to the conscientious second accountant of the Ulster bank,
College Green branch. Girl’s sweet light lips. Averting his face quickly Bloom bends to examine on the
halltable the spaniel eyes of a running fox: then, his lifted head
sniffing, follows Zoe into the musicroom. Then he walked to the other end
and shook it again. Boody stamped her foot and threw her satchel on the table. He raised his head firmly. —That’s it, he said. Wait for an opportunity. Chorus excipiat. He made money. —It is indeed, ma’am, Buck Mulligan said, pouring milk into their cups. Haines said to her:

—Have you your bill? We had better pay her, Mulligan, hadn’t we?

Stephen filled again the three cups. Section 1. The tram passed. I believe you. —She lies laid out in stark stiffness in that secondbest bed, the
mobled queen, even though you prove that a bed in those days was as
rare as a motorcar is now and that its carvings were the wonder of
seven parishes. Sit tight. So long as
women don’t mock what matter? That’s the way to find out. He’s going to take an
action for ten thousand pounds, he says. But they must breed a devil of a lot of maggots. Do you know
that? No. Stop that and begin worse. )_ O!
Weeshwashtkissinapooisthnapoohuck?

BLOOM: _(His eyes wildly dilated, clasps himself. All those holes and
pebbles. —Corny might have given us a more commodious yoke, Mr Power said. )_ O, I see. Something
pinned on: photo perhaps. He will see in them
grotesque attempts of nature to foretell or to repeat himself. He glanced sideways in the sunlight at M’Coy. L. At this very moment, says he, putting up his fist, sold
by auction in Morocco like slaves or cattle. But the slap and
the blessing stood him friend, says Mr Vincent, for to make up he
taught him a trick worth two of the other so that maid, wife, abbess
and widow to this day affirm that they would rather any time of the
month whisper in his ear in the dark of a cowhouse or get a lick on the
nape from his long holy tongue than lie with the finest strapping young
ravisher in the four fields of all Ireland. Probably neuter. Freeman’s Journal 1—7—6
     Loan (Stephen Dedalus)             1—7—0
                                        —————
                                        2—19—3
Did the process of divestiture continue?

Did the process of divestiture continue?

Sensible of a benignant persistent ache in his footsoles he extended
his foot to one side and observed the creases, protuberances and
salient points caused by foot pressure in the course of walking
repeatedly in several different directions, then, inclined, he disnoded
the laceknots, unhooked and loosened the laces, took off each of his
two boots for the second time, detached the partially moistened right
sock through the fore part of which the nail of his great toe had again
effracted, raised his right foot and, having unhooked a purple elastic
sock suspender, took off his right sock, placed his unclothed right
foot on the margin of the seat of his chair, picked at and gently
lacerated the protruding part of the great toenail, raised the part
lacerated to his nostrils and inhaled the odour of the quick, then,
with satisfaction, threw away the lacerated ungual fragment. This is my body. Just you try it on. Five young children. That bee or bluebottle here Whitmonday. Stephen’s hand, free again, went back to the hollow shells. You never saw the like of it in all your born puff. Dth, dth, dth! Three days imagine groaning on a bed with a
vinegared handkerchief round her forehead, her belly swollen out. Demimondaine. To show the
understudy in the title _rôle_ how to. The men came to
handigrips. Christ or
Pilate? Christ, but don’t keep us all night over it. Can’t blame them after all with the job they have especially
the young hornies. Be the better of a shave. An attendant from the doorway called:

—Mr Lyster! Father Dineen wants. Columbanus and S. At each slow satiny heaving bosom’s wave (her heaving
embon) red rose rose slowly sank red rose. —Are you going to write it? Mr Best asked. Not a bit. Here!

_(A firm heelclacking tread is heard on the stairs. He knows which side his bread is buttered on though in all
probability he never realised what it is to be without regular meals. —That’ll do, Father Cowley said, nodding also. He waits while you wait. She
waved about her outspread _Independent,_ searching, the lord
lieutenant, her pinnacles of hair slowmoving, lord lieuten. )_ That fell. STEPHEN: Lucifer. Jigjag. Buried the poor husband but
progressing favourably on the premium. _Nos omnes
biberimus viridum toxicum diabolus capiat posterioria nostria_. The
clumsy things are dear at a sou. The shining seven W. Bloom bent leopold ear, turning a fringe of doyley down under the vase. From Butler’s monument house corner he glanced along Bachelor’s walk. See
paragraph 1. Blurt out what I was
thinking. Waters, C. How many miles to Dublin?
     Three score and ten, sir. )_ Blemblem. I. —And here’s himself and pepper on him, Nosey Flynn said. Good
day, sir. Hold me. )_ And done!

A BELLHANGER: A classic face! He has the forehead of a thinker. Rehearsing
his band part. )_ Hot! Hot! Ware Sitting Bull!

BLOOM: It overpowers me. The Sassenach wants his morning rashers. Your own name is
strange enough. [Illustration]

How did the son of Rudolph receive this first part?

With unmixed feeling. We have time. He held me and I was discoloured in four places as a
result. Shoals of them every evening poured
out of offices. Mr Bloom closed his eyes and sadly twice bowed his head. Remind you of a
mosque, redbaked bricks, the minarets. It ran
as follows: _Tarjeta Postal, Señor A Boudin, Galeria Becche, Santiago,
Chile. —Who? the editor asked. How is that done? All lost now. Passed. We had our trade with
Spain and the French and with the Flemings before those mongrels were
pupped, Spanish ale in Galway, the winebark on the winedark waterway. It was a
working plumber was my ruination when I was pure. ; the very rev. There was something on his mind, I saw. The lonely
house by the graveyard is uninhabited. Madcap Ciss with her golliwog curls. Great card he was. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U. If they were they’d
walk me off the face of the bloody globe. Corny Kelleher stood by the opened hearse and took
out the two wreaths. and T. —True for you, says Joe. But listen. A little trouble about those white corpuscles. How much do
I owe you? Three and nine? Two and nine, sir. )_ A son of a whore. Flaxseed
tea. —Let me cross your bows mate, he said to his neighbour who was just
gently dropping off into a peaceful doze. —Look here, Martin, John Wyse Nolan said, overtaking them at the _Mail_
office. I hear he’s
running a concert tour now up in the north. Who
knows? Ways of the world. Let us sit down somewhere and discuss. ,_ 5 minims
_Extr. When in doubt persecute
Bloom. They hide. —Well, he’s going off by the mailboat, says Joe, tonight. )
and begged the chance of his washing. Gone. Fertiliser and
Incubator. Very possibly I shall have you slaughtered and
skewered in my stables and enjoy a slice of you with crisp crackling
from the baking tin basted and baked like sucking pig with rice and
lemon or currant sauce. No. —That’s all done with a purpose, Martin Cunningham explained to Hynes. So he calls the old dog over. Mr Bloom went round the corner and passed the drooping nags of the
hazard. Time enough. His dachshund coat becomes a brown
mortuary habit. It buzz, it twanged. _(He points. Three Hynes owes me. _Vere dignum et iustum est. I remember the famine
in ’46. Honoured by
our monarch. And that is why they are wanderers on the
earth to this day. _ _(To Cissy Caffrey. She wasn’t in a hurry either. DR CROTTHERS: I have examined the patient’s urine. Paddy Leonard and Bantam Lyons came in. The Katty Lanner step. That
a man’s soul after he dies. Flatter. Would you go back to then? Just beginning
then. Fff! Oo!

Where bronze from anear? Where gold from afar? Where hoofs?

Rrrpr. May be for months and may be for never. Such as?

K. Interest, however, was starting to flag somewhat all round and then the
others got on to talking about accidents at sea, ships lost in a fog,
collisions with icebergs, all that sort of thing. He has seen a fair share go under in his time, lying around him field
after field. She had loved him better than he knew. The gentle art of
advertisement. —Quite right too, Mr Dedalus said, going out. Who’s paying here?

_(She goes to the pianola. She’ll be good, sir. Bad breath he has, poor chap. None nought said nothing. Talk that to someone else,
Stevie: a pickmeup. Joe Brady and
the rest of them. And the problem of possible redemption?

The minor was proved by the major. —O, he did, Martin Cunningham affirmed. )_

THE BAWD: _(Her voice whispering huskily. Per second
for every second it means. I dreamt. —Ben machree, said Mr Dedalus, clapping Ben’s fat back shoulderblade. What caused him irritation in his sitting posture?

Inhibitory pressure of collar (size 17) and waistcoat (5 buttons), two
articles of clothing superfluous in the costume of mature males and
inelastic to alterations of mass by expansion. He urged me
to do likewise, to misbehave, to sin with officers of the garrison. And buy from us. Who is
this wrote? Know the name you know better. The young man’s face grew dark. d. Teeth getting worse and worse. Besides
they have so little taste in dress, most of them, which greatly
enhances a woman’s natural beauty, no matter what you say. Payment at the rate of guinea
per col. It simply doesn’t matter. Aham! Hot spirit of juniper juice warmed his vitals and his breath. I’m, he resumed with dramatic
force, as good an Irishman as that rude person I told you about at the
outset and I want to see everyone, concluded he, all creeds and classes
_pro rata_ having a comfortable tidysized income, in no niggard fashion
either, something in the neighbourhood of £ 300 per annum. were
taking tea and sodabread and butter and fried mutton chops with catsup
and talking about

     Cuckoo
     Cuckoo
     Cuckoo. What?. But suppose you said it
like: Martha, seven times nine minus x is thirtyfive thousand. She
stood still, waiting, while the man, husband, brother, like her,
searched his pockets for change. Phenomenon! The fat heap he
married is a nice old phenomenon with a back on her like a ballalley. If there
were only ethereal where would you all be, postulants and novices? Shy
but willing like an ass pissing. Pat, waiter, waited. He was. Step
in. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook. —Yes, Mr Bloom said, teasing the curling catgut line. Silently at the gravehead another coiled the coffinband. He saw them three by three, approaching girls, in green, in rose, in
russet, entwining, _per l’aer perso_, in mauve, in purple, _quella
pacifica oriafiamma_, gold of oriflamme, _di rimirar fè più ardenti. )_

THE GAFFER: _(Crouches, his voice twisted in his snout. Do
you remember her, Vincent? I wish you could have seen my queen today,
Vincent said. C. dim sea. —Three twelve, he said. Old Russell with a smeared shammy rag burnished again his gem, turned
it and held it at the point of his Moses’ beard. Murder will out. Follow. That was the talk
of the town that year (Albert William Quill wrote a fine piece of
original verse of distinctive merit on the topic for the Irish
_Times_), breakers running over her and crowds and crowds on the shore
in commotion petrified with horror. They know it all
by heart. Forget not Madam Grissel Steevens nor the suine scions
of the house of Lambert. He halted and growled angrily:

—_For England_. Here, citizen. Her hub fifty odd and a methodist but takes the
sacrament and is to be seen any fair sabbath with a pair of his boys
off Bullock harbour dapping on the sound with a heavybraked reel or in
a punt he has trailing for flounder and pollock and catches a fine bag,
I hear. —Very much so, Nosey Flynn said. An Irishman must think
like that, I daresay. )_ Beer beef battledog buybull businum
barnum buggerum bishop. Land of
the setting sun this. That answer and those
leaves, Vincent said to him, will adorn you more fitly when something
more, and greatly more, than a capful of light odes can call your
genius father. A move had to be made because that merry old soul, the
grasswidower in question who appeared to be glued to the spot, didn’t
appear in any particular hurry to wend his way home to his dearly
beloved Queenstown and it was highly likely some sponger’s bawdyhouse
of retired beauties where age was no bar off Sheriff street lower would
be the best clue to that equivocal character’s whereabouts for a few
days to come, alternately racking their feelings (the mermaids’) with
sixchamber revolver anecdotes verging on the tropical calculated to
freeze the marrow of anybody’s bones and mauling their largesized
charms betweenwhiles with rough and tumble gusto to the accompaniment
of large potations of potheen and the usual blarney about himself for
as to who he in reality was let x equal my right name and address, as
Mr Algebra remarks _passim_. Whacking a carpet on
the clothesline. _(He
murmurs vaguely the pass of Ephraim. Bloom was talking and talking with John Wyse and he quite excited with
his dunducketymudcoloured mug on him and his old plumeyes rolling
about. Cut with grass or paper worst. Mr Bloom promptly did as suggested and removed the incriminated
article, a blunt hornhandled ordinary knife with nothing particularly
Roman or antique about it to the lay eye, observing that the point was
the least conspicuous point about it. —No, Mr Bloom began, turning and stopping. Consult index for agitated fear of
aconite, melancholy of muriatic, priapic pulsatilla. Longest way round is the shortest way home. Ask you do you like
mushrooms because she once knew a gentleman who. Useless: can’t move. For the rest Eve’s
sovereign remedy. Something new and easy. A. )_ Dr Bloom, Leopold, dental surgeon. Fifteen. Lovey lovekin. Quite an
excellent repast consisting of rashers and eggs, fried steak and
onions, done to a nicety, delicious hot breakfast rolls and
invigorating tea had been considerately provided by the authorities for
the consumption of the central figure of the tragedy who was in capital
spirits when prepared for death and evinced the keenest interest in the
proceedings from beginning to end but he, with an abnegation rare in
these our times, rose nobly to the occasion and expressed the dying
wish (immediately acceded to) that the meal should be divided in
aliquot parts among the members of the sick and indigent roomkeepers’
association as a token of his regard and esteem. That suits your book, eh? Fleshhotpots of Egypt to hanker
after. —There’s Jimmy Henry, Mr Power said, just heading for Kavanagh’s. Sst!

STEPHEN: _(Altius aliquantulum. Stars all around suns
turn roundabout. Cashed a cheque for me once. Any object, intensely regarded, may be a gate of access to the
incorruptible eon of the gods. Tape measurements will be taken next your skin. It vibrates. Bloom stands aside. Simply fag out there for nothing. The Christ with the bridesister, moisture of
light, born of an ensouled virgin, repentant sophia, departed to the
plane of buddhi. The joy of creation. She’s going to sing at a swagger affair in the
Ulster Hall, Belfast, on the twentyfifth. Crooked as a ram’s horn. Why? Smaller from want of use. )_ She didn’t mean it, Mr Bello. The maid was in the garden. —Alas, Stephen said. The alchemists. —_Conspuez les Français_, says Lenehan, nobbling his beer. Silly superstition that about thirteen. I hear you say
onions? Bloo? Cadges ads. The annual dinner, you know. Wait. Sp. But then why is it that saltwater fish are
not salty? How is that?

His eyes sought answer from the river and saw a rowboat rock at anchor
on the treacly swells lazily its plastered board. You have spoken of the
past and its phantoms, Stephen said. Kitty leans over
Zoe’s neck. —O, to be sure, John Henry Menton said. Mrs Marion. Jimmy Henry made a grimace and lifted his left foot. She did it up all by herself and what joy was hers when she tried it on
then, smiling at the lovely reflection which the mirror gave back to
her! And when she put it on the waterjug to keep the shape she knew
that that would take the shine out of some people she knew. I tore up the envelope? Yes. Hurray! _(They cheer. No-one knows him. I have my stick. Lovely weather we’re having. p. )_

THE CHOIR:

     Liliata rutilantium te confessorum. Enjoying nature now. Young Colum and Starkey. With a touch of
fear for the young man beside him whom he furtively scrutinised with an
air of some consternation remembering he had just come back from Paris,
the eyes more especially reminding him forcibly of father and sister,
failing to throw much light on the subject, however, he brought to mind
instances of cultured fellows that promised so brilliantly nipped in
the bud of premature decay and nobody to blame but themselves. She gave her moist (a
lady’s) hand to his firm clasp. I declare to my antimacassar if you took up a
straw from the bloody floor and if you said to Bloom: _Look at, Bloom. )_ If it were he? After? Or because not? Or the double
event?

ZOE: _(Tears open the silverfoil. Mr Dedalus bent across to salute. )_ Mr Dedalus!
_(There is no answer. Hands felt for the opulent. )_ Bloom is a cod. —I saw it, the editor said proudly. )_ You shall find that these night insects follow the
light. Only crows, priests and English coal are
black. Wylie who
was racing in the bicycle races in Trinity college university. Fall into flesh, don’t they? Gluttons,
tall, long legs. , rosary,
sermon and benediction of the Most Blessed Sacrament. Messenger boys stealing to put on sixpence. So. Shylock chimes with the jewbaiting that followed the hanging
and quartering of the queen’s leech Lopez, his jew’s heart being
plucked forth while the sheeny was yet alive: _Hamlet_ and _Macbeth_
with the coming to the throne of a Scotch philosophaster with a turn
for witchroasting. —What are you doing? Stephen said. Molly tasting it, her veil up. A smaller girl with scars of
eczema on her forehead eyed him, listlessly holding her battered
caskhoop. Footdrill stopped. Repentance skindeep. (_He swerves, sidles, stepaside, slips past and on. Touch lightly with
two index fingers. BLOOM: _(Hides the crubeen and trotter behind his back and,
crestfallen, feels warm and cold feetmeat. )_

THE GASJET: Pooah! Pfuiiiiiii!

_(Zoe runs to the chandelier and, crooking her leg, adjusts the
mantle. They
don’t seem to chew it: only swallow it down. But Dignam’s put the boots on it. He changed it by deedpoll, the
father did. A boy. That’s why. )_ And there now! With this
ring I thee own. _

—_Qui fecit cœlum et terram. Pallas Athena! A play! The
play’s the thing! Let me parturiate!

He clasped his paunchbrow with both birthaiding hands. In the
porch of Four Courts Richie Goulding with the costbag of Goulding,
Collis and Ward saw him with surprise. Like through a
colander. Used to get good retainers from D. From
farther away, walking shoreward across from the crested tide, figures,
two. He chose badly? He
was chosen, it seems to me. —Excuse me, councillor, he said. BLOOM: What? Where? _(He throws a shilling on the table and starts. )_
Smell that. Sad however
because it lasts only a few years till they settle down to potwalloping
and papa’s pants will soon fit Willy and fuller’s earth for the baby
when they hold him out to do ah ah. 7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1. calls them. Footmarks are stamped over it in
all senses, heel to heel, heel to hollow, toe to toe, feet locked, a
morris of shuffling feet without body phantoms, all in a scrimmage
higgledypiggledy. She draws from behind,
ogling, and shows coyly her bloodied clout. _(Stephen turns and sees Bloom. Whooping cough they say it cures. At the corner of Wilde’s house he halted, frowned at Elijah’s name
announced on the Metropolitan hall, frowned at the distant pleasance of
duke’s lawn. Those were old worldish days, loyal times in joyous townlands, old
times in the barony. Though it was a warm pleasant sort
of a night now yet wonderfully cool for the season considering, for
sunshine after storm. What moved visibly above the listener’s and the narrator’s invisible
thoughts?

The upcast reflection of a lamp and shade, an inconstant series of
concentric circles of varying gradations of light and shadow. —Yes, indeed, the quaker librarian said. We have Edward the peacemaker now. _Encore deux minutes_. Twittering the bat
flew here, flew there. Bottle of lager. Give the devil his due. 20. FLORRY: _(Nods. Wonder what he does. Eppoi mi sono convinto che il mondo è una bestia. Narrator:
reclined laterally, left, with right and left legs flexed, the index
finger and thumb of the right hand resting on the bridge of the nose,
in the attitude depicted in a snapshot photograph made by Percy Apjohn,
the childman weary, the manchild in the womb. He strolled. Doublebasses
helpless, gashes in their sides. Keep his cane clear of the horse’s legs: tired
drudge get his doze. by
_Rightaway-Thrale_, 5 yrs, 9 st 4 lbs (W. Stick one
into Jerry. Sinn Fein. Why think of them? If I call them
into life across the waters of Lethe will not the poor ghosts troop to
my call? Who supposes it? I, Bous Stephanoumenos, bullockbefriending
bard, am lord and giver of their life. Wren, 9 Bachelor’s Walk. Wise Bloom
eyed on the door a poster, a swaying mermaid smoking mid nice waves. Gave her
that song _Winds that blow from the south_. Where are you from? London?

ZOE: _(Glibly. )_

ZOE: _(Sniffs his hair briskly. Then not till then. Why did I? Too
heady. You, sir? Ginger cordial. Last
look at mirror always before she answers the door. No sign. d. My kneecap is hurting me. Irritable little gnat she was and always would be and that was
why no-one could get on with her poking her nose into what was no
concern of hers. )_

THE HONOURABLE MRS MERVYN TALBOYS: _(Stamps her jingling spurs in a
sudden paroxysm of fury. One thinks of Homer. Keep him off the boose, see? O, by God, Blazes is
a hairy chap. Pat is a waiter who waits while you wait. I looked so simple in the cradle they
christened me simple Simon. Let me think. She was a nice old bag of tricks. He stands before a lighted house,
listening. On her flower frowning miss Douce said:

—Most aggravating that young brat is. —Watch him, Mr Bloom said. Well up: it splashed yellow near his boot. Doesn’t give them any of it: shew wine: only the other. I
was reading a report of lord Castletown’s. Why did he not elaborate these calculations to a more precise result?

Because some years previously in 1886 when occupied with the problem of
the quadrature of the circle he had learned of the existence of a
number computed to a relative degree of accuracy to be of such
magnitude and of so many places, e. —The gunboat, the keeper said. Friends here. He takes me, Napper Tandy, by the hand. Was this affirmation apprehended by Bloom?

Not verbally. The truth, spit it
out. A warm human plumpness settled down on his brain. Winner trained by
Braime so that Lenehan’s version of the business was all pure buncombe. So now you know what
I will do to you, you naughty boy, if you do not wrote. Cloacae: sewers. )_

BLOOM: Beware of pickpockets. No use canvassing him for an
ad. )_ Carbine in bucket! Cease fire! Salute!

THE RETRIEVER: _(Barking furiously. The christian laws which built up the hoards of the
jews (for whom, as for the lollards, storm was shelter) bound their
affections too with hoops of steel. Stimulate the caloric. His
sleep is not natural. —No. O you inquisitional drunken jewjesuit! She gets you a
job on the paper and then you go and slate her drivel to Jaysus. P. _Dominenamine. Wear out my welcome. One of them mots that do be in the packets of fags Stoer
smokes that his old fellow welted hell out of him for one time he found
out. Constable MacFadden was heartily
congratulated by all the F. )_ Strange how they take to me. However in another pocket he came across what he surmised in
the dark were pennies, erroneously however, as it turned out. —Hello?. Ah!

_(Bella raises her gown slightly and, steadying her pose, lifts to the
edge of a chair a plump buskined hoof and a full pastern, silksocked. They laughed all three. Money was no object, he said, nor would he take a penny for
his pains. Eve. —As we, or mother Dana, weave and unweave our bodies, Stephen said,
from day to day, their molecules shuttled to and fro, so does the
artist weave and unweave his image. The ashplant marks his stride. Scissors and paste. —Good health, Ned, says J. There’s a committee formed. Wait a minute. Nudging the door open with his knee he carried the tray in and set it
on the chair by the bedhead. He waited by the counter, inhaling slowly the keen reek of drugs, the
dusty dry smell of sponges and loofahs. And lo,
wonder of metempsychosis, it is she, the everlasting bride, harbinger
of the daystar, the bride, ever virgin. _

_(The cigarette slips from Stephen’s fingers. Things go on same, day after day:
squads of police marching out, back: trams in, out. Round
their shores file shadows black of cedargroves. That’s John Howard, his brother, our city marshal. And
he let a volley of oaths after him. Electuary or emulsion. One grain pour off odour for years. Hook in wrong tache of her. He holds my follies hostage. All the beef
to the heels were in. His collar sprang up again and he tugged it down. Two bar and a wing. Job seems to suit them. Religion pays. A fellow could live on his lonesome all his life. So were they all in their blind fancy, Mr Cavil and Mr
Sometimes Godly, Mr Ape Swillale, Mr False Franklin, Mr Dainty Dixon,
Young Boasthard and Mr Cautious Calmer. —But my riddle! he said. Halcyon days. We haven’t got the chance of a snowball in hell. _(He steps forward. No woman of any wit would
wear one. Something like those mazzoth: it’s that
sort of bread: unleavened shewbread. Then ask in
the morning: was I drunk last night? Bad policy however to fault the
husband. Might stop him giving
credit another time. )_

BLOOM: _(Wonderstruck, calls inaudibly. Maledicity! he exclaimed in
anguish. The chemist turned back page after page. I certainly am thinking
now Miss Higgins and Miss Ricketts got religion way inside them. )_

MAJOR TWEEDY: _(Loudly. Simples. They wheeled, flapping. —O, an impossible person! he exclaimed. O’Molloy pulled a long face and walked on silently. It will come as a surprise to his grace. —Our young Irish bards, John Eglinton censured, have yet to create a
figure which the world will set beside Saxon Shakespeare’s Hamlet
though I admire him, as old Ben did, on this side idolatry. Dislike carrying bottles like that hag
this morning. Light to the gentiles. I should have said when he clapped on his topper. How did the chanter compensate for this deficiency?

By a periphrastic version of the general text. Birds of prey, winging from the sea,
rising from marshlands, swooping from eyries, hover screaming, gannets,
cormorants, vultures, goshawks, climbing woodcocks, peregrines,
merlins, blackgrouse, sea eagles, gulls, albatrosses, barnacle geese. —What? Mr Bloom asked. Who is that beside them? Ah, the
brother-in-law. A glow leaps in the south
beyond the seaward reaches of the river. His Majesty the King
loves Her Majesty the Queen. Ay, and done says I. Candle. I didn’t see the paper. Must have
sweated: music. He ceased. Just mix up a mixture of
theolologicophilolological. Make him independent. A horde of heresies
fleeing with mitres awry: Photius and the brood of mockers of whom
Mulligan was one, and Arius, warring his life long upon the
consubstantiality of the Son with the Father, and Valentine, spurning
Christ’s terrene body, and the subtle African heresiarch Sabellius who
held that the Father was Himself His own Son. All turned where they stood. —Clamn dever, Lenehan said to Mr O’Madden Burke. Looked enough. THE NYMPH: _(Her fingers in her ears. Thank you: not having any. Could have given that address too. ZOE: _(Stiffly, her finger in her neckfillet. Ci rifletta_. First he got a bit of a
start but it turned out to be only something about somebody named H. Murder. I know that. What memories had he of her adolescence?

She relegated her hoop and skippingrope to a recess. But it was lovely. God’s little joke. He perceived also that
the awkward man at the other side of her was sitting on the edge of the
seat. Secrets, silent, stony
sit in the dark palaces of both our hearts: secrets weary of their
tyranny: tyrants, willing to be dethroned. So in the moon’s
midwatches I pace the path above the rocks, in sable silvered, hearing
Elsinore’s tempting flood. Bald Pat at a sign drew nigh. Call
that innocence? Poor idiot! His wife has her work cut out for her. C. J. Backers shout. Boland’s breadvan delivering with trays our
daily but she prefers yesterday’s loaves turnovers crisp crowns hot. Please take one. Were they indefinitely inactive?

At Stephen’s suggestion, at Bloom’s instigation both, first Stephen,
then Bloom, in penumbra urinated, their sides contiguous, their organs
of micturition reciprocally rendered invisible by manual
circumposition, their gazes, first Bloom’s, then Stephen’s, elevated to
the projected luminous and semiluminous shadow. Speech paused on Richie’s lips. Indiges. Yet, though such criminal propensities had never been an inmate of his
bosom in any shape or form, he certainly did feel and no denying it
(while inwardly remaining what he was) a certain kind of admiration for
a man who had actually brandished a knife, cold steel, with the courage
of his political convictions (though, personally, he would never be a
party to any such thing), off the same bat as those love vendettas of
the south, have her or swing for her, when the husband frequently,
after some words passed between the two concerning her relations with
the other lucky mortal (he having had the pair watched), inflicted
fatal injuries on his adored one as a result of an alternative
postnuptial _liaison_ by plunging his knife into her, until it just
struck him that Fitz, nicknamed Skin-the-Goat, merely drove the car for
the actual perpetrators of the outrage and so was not, if he was
reliably informed, actually party to the ambush which, in point of
fact, was the plea some legal luminary saved his skin on. Beside her mirage of datepalms a handsome woman in
Turkish costume stands before him. Returned with thanks
having fully digested the contents. Many. Know. , were very much under the
microscope lately. Righto, Isaacs, shove em out of the
bleeding limelight. The shreds fluttered
away, sank in the dank air: a white flutter, then all sank. Goodgod henev erheard inall. Cowley, he stuns himself with it: kind of drunkenness. Faith, no, he
says, Frank (that was his name), ’tis all about Kerry cows that are to
be butchered along of the plague. We grew by Poulaphouca waterfall. One dragged aside: an old woman
peeping. Waaaaaaalk. The redlabelled bottle on the table. Nearing the end of his
tether now. What? O, Jesus, he did. Not even the smoke. —From me, Kinch, he said. Vats of porter wonderful. Tap. That ruffian, that
sham squire, with his violet gloves gave him away. H. She didn’t know what to do
     To keep it up,
     To keep it up. Love,
moya! He’s a nice pattern of a Romeo and Juliet. —Me? says Alf. Lumpmusic. Madden up. Still David Sheehy beat him for south Meath. )_ Tell us, Florry. One! Two! Thr. Their dog ambled about a bank of dwindling sand, trotting, sniffing on
all sides. )_ Zoe! Zoe!

BLOOM: _(Urgently. Get outside of a baron of beef. )_ Honourable wounds! _(He trips up a fat policeman. Lose it out of that pocket. Ellis’s _Three Trips to Madagascar_ (brown cloth, title obliterated). Send us
bright one, light one, Horhorn, quickening and wombfruit. IM: a press
cutting from an English weekly periodical _Modern Society_, subject
corporal chastisement in girls’ schools: a pink ribbon which had
festooned an Easter egg in the year 1899: two partly uncoiled rubber
preservatives with reserve pockets, purchased by post from Box 32, P. Harsh gargoyle face that warred against me over our mess of hash of
lights in rue Saint-André-des-Arts. —I was with Bob Doran, he’s on one of his periodical bends, and what do
you call him Bantam Lyons. No more do I. His
mobile lips read, smiling with new delight. Dan Occam thought of that,
invincible doctor. Who to clear it? He has the key. Blessed be the eight beatitudes. —Getonouthat, you bloody old pedagogue! the editor said in recognition. In a weak moment I erred and did what I
did on Constitution hill. Whereto?
Newhaven-Dieppe, steerage passenger. Reading, lying back now, counting the strands of her hair, smiling,
braiding. )_ He’s Bloom! Stop Bloom!
Stopabloom! Stopperrobber! Hi! Hi! Stophim on the corner!

_(At the corner of Beaver street beneath the scaffolding Bloom panting
stops on the fringe of the noisy quarrelling knot, a lot not knowing a
jot what hi! hi! row and wrangle round the whowhat brawlaltogether. I will
return. They were gentlemen. LENEHAN: A good night’s work. It is for you, Gertrude MacDowell, and you
know it. Hand on his
heart. Aristotle’s experiment. )_

_(Many most attractive and enthusiastic women also commit suicide by
stabbing, drowning, drinking prussic acid, aconite, arsenic, opening
their veins, refusing food, casting themselves under steamrollers, from
the top of Nelson’s Pillar, into the great vat of Guinness’s brewery,
asphyxiating themselves by placing their heads in gasovens, hanging
themselves in stylish garters, leaping from windows of different
storeys. You are my lookingglass from night to morning. *    *    *


_—Ma!_ Almidano Artifoni said. )_ Providential you came on the scene. Lambay Island_. Yes? Hands felt for the opulent. )_ Promiscuous nakedness
is much in evidence hereabouts, eh? Inadvertently her backview revealed
the fact that she is not wearing those rather intimate garments of
which you are a particular devotee. Then the next one. That keeps him alive. O’MOLLOY: A Daniel did I say? Nay! A Peter O’Brien!

NOSEY FLYNN: Where do I draw the five pounds?

PISSER BURKE: For bladder trouble?

BLOOM:

_Acid. _That
beetles o’er his base into the sea,_ isn’t it?

Buck Mulligan turned suddenly for an instant towards Stephen but did
not speak. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. _my ardent soul
I care not foror the morrow. D. Brendan and S. I’m
Yorkshire born. Crucial moment. In their line. Canice of Kilkenny and S. Come, come, says Mr Vincent, plain dealing. Sorry, sir: trouble. He
eyed the horseshoe poster over the gate of college park: cyclist
doubled up like a cod in a pot. —You make good use of the name, John Eglinton allowed. O jays, into the
men’s porter. Old
lardyface standing up to the business end of a gun. Cuts off their diddies when they can’t bear no more
children. Wonder
what kind is swanmeat. Listen!

The spiked and winding cold seahorn. Farewell. Coming out of her shell. Like Mary, queen of Scots, something. Mackerel they called me. Moore asked him to bring Haines. —Sister Mary Patrick, Maggy said. _Un demi
sétier!_ A jet of coffee steam from the burnished caldron. Francis was reminding Stephen of years before when they had been at
school together in Conmee’s time. Recommend it to your lady and gentlemen
friends, lasts a lifetime. C. Madam Tweedy is in her bath, sir. BLOOM: _(Regretfully. He pitched a broad coin down. —Put these in first, will you? he said. Isn’t it awfully good?

—What is that? Mr Dedalus asked. Does he ever think of the hole waiting for himself? They say you do
when you shiver in the sun. On the roadway which they were approaching whilst still speaking beyond
the swingchains a horse, dragging a sweeper, paced on the paven ground,
brushing a long swathe of mire up so that with the noise Bloom was not
perfectly certain whether he had caught aright the allusion to
sixtyfive guineas and John Bull. —_I could not leave thee_. No, agallop: _deline the mare_. Youth led by
Experience visits Notoriety. Mona, my own love. Useless words. She knew
from the first poor little Rudy wouldn’t live. In bearded abundant laughter Dollard shook upon the keyboard. March! Tramp, tramp, tramp, the boys are (attitudes!)
parching. And
just now at Edy’s words as a telltale flush, delicate as the faintest
rosebloom, crept into her cheeks she looked so lovely in her sweet
girlish shyness that of a surety God’s fair land of Ireland did not
hold her equal. O’Molloy offered his case to
Myles Crawford. A magnesium flashlight photograph is
taken. —. Huguenot churchyard near there. For that are you
pining, the bark of their applause? Pretenders: live their lives. A man and
his menfriends are living there in clover. Bloom was pointing out all the stars and the
comets in the heavens to Chris Callinan and the jarvey: the great bear
and Hercules and the dragon, and the whole jingbang lot. night before last. Do you believe
your own theory?

—No, Stephen said promptly. _(Her sowcunt
barks. Did the man reappear elsewhere?

After a lapse of four minutes the glimmer of his candle was discernible
through the semitransparent semicircular glass fanlight over the
halldoor. Amongst the clergy present were the very rev. , sir. J. The lights change, glow,
fade gold rosy violet. Because the controlled contemplation of the fluctuation of
attraction produced, if desired, a fluctuation of pleasure. _
God’s air, the Allfather’s air, scintillant circumambient cessile air. _(He hurries out through the hall. Why
is that? Valuation is only twentyeight. —That will do, professor MacHugh cried from the window. I
slipped. I
remain with much love your brokenhearted husband W. My mother’s sister married a Montmorency. Columble her. The only thing is to walk then you’ll feel a different man. He’ll lose that cash. _Life of life, thy lips enkindle. Faunman he met in Clamart woods,
brandishing a winebottle. Heart trouble, I believe. Where was the chap I saw in that picture somewhere? Ah yes, in
the dead sea floating on his back, reading a book with a parasol open. Old legal cronies cracking a
magnum. Zoe offers him chocolate. _Martha_ it is. It was too blooming
dull sitting in the parlour with Mrs Stoer and Mrs Quigley and Mrs
MacDowell and the blind down and they all at their sniffles and sipping
sups of the superior tawny sherry uncle Barney brought from Tunney’s. A sevenmonths’ child, he
had been carefully brought up and nurtured by an aged bedridden parent. Cissy’s quick motherwit guessed what was amiss and she whispered to Edy
Boardman to take him there behind the pushcar where the gentleman
couldn’t see and to mind he didn’t wet his new tan shoes. What offers?
_(He points. Human shells. Ned Lambert, laughing, struck the newspaper on his knees, repeating:

—_The pensive bosom and the overarsing leafage_. Blown in from the bay. He entered Davy Byrne’s. Good night. gutenberg. O’Molloy said, rumour has it, on
the Trinity college estates commission. —Tatters! Out of that, you mongrel!

The cry brought him skulking back to his master and a blunt bootless
kick sent him unscathed across a spit of sand, crouched in flight. An instant after,
under its screen, his eyes looked quickly, ghostbright, at his foe and
fell once more upon a working corner. Bought the _Irish
Field_ now. 1. That will do. I forgot
to tap Tom Kernan. He took off his silk hat and, blowing out impatiently his bushy
moustache, welshcombed his hair with raking fingers. Given away with the Easter number
of _Photo Bits_: Splendid masterpiece in art colours. Stop!

He looked down intently into a stone crypt. _(He brushes the
woodshavings from Stephen’s clothes with light hand and fingers. ; the rev. Mr Bloom walked behind the eyeless feet, a flatcut suit of herringbone
tweed. Possibly he had tried
to find out the secret for himself, floundering up and down the
antipodes and all that sort of thing and over and under, well, not
exactly under, tempting the fates. )_ Ladies and
gentlemen, I give you Ireland, home and beauty. _(He laughs. Bloom? Never
heard of him. —Lovely! Buck Mulligan suspired amorously. No answer. First he tickled her
     Then he patted her
     Then he passed the female catheter
     For he was a medical
     Jolly old medi. A lump in my pocket: symbols soiled by greed
and misery. From the _Freeman. Even if he was a protestant or methodist she could
convert him easily if he truly loved her. J. He crossed to the bright side, avoiding the loose cellarflap of number
seventyfive. Once you are dead you
are dead. How sad to poor Gerty’s ears! Had her father only avoided
the clutches of the demon drink, by taking the pledge or those powders
the drink habit cured in Pearson’s Weekly, she might now be rolling in
her carriage, second to none. Done to a turn. —As an Englishman, you mean, John sturdy Eglinton put in, he loved a
lord. —Your hat is a little crushed, Mr Bloom said pointing. Can’t always save you, though. )

—There’s the man, says Joe, that made the Gaelic sports revival. Big Benaben Dollard. Their full slow eyes belied the words, the gestures eager and
unoffending, but knew the rancours massed about them and knew their
zeal was vain. And when the painters were in Lombard street west. Dear Henry, when will we meet? I think of you
so often you have no idea. _(She fades from his side. She was entitled to her widow’s dower
At common law. Corny
Kelleher again reassuralooms with his hand. He stood in the porch and watched the laggard hurry towards the scrappy
field where sharp voices were in strife. But Edy wanted to know
because they were told to be in early. But I couldn’t go in
that light suit. —Good day, Mr Subsheriff, Martin Cunningham said, as all halted and
greeted. What instances of deficient mental development in his wife inclined him
in favour of the lastmentioned (ninth) solution?

In disoccupied moments she had more than once covered a sheet of paper
with signs and hieroglyphics which she stated were Greek and Irish and
Hebrew characters. )

PRIVATE CARR: _(With ferocious articulation. Two
houses they have. More power,
citizen. Know that old lay? I taught Patrice that. It is fate. But wait!

Low in dark middle earth. P. )_ Here,
you were with him. His parboiled eyes. What visible luminous sign attracted Bloom’s, who attracted Stephen’s,
gaze?

In the second storey (rere) of his (Bloom’s) house the light of a
paraffin oil lamp with oblique shade projected on a screen of roller
blind supplied by Frank O’Hara, window blind, curtain pole and
revolving shutter manufacturer, 16 Aungier street. Whispering gallery walls have ears. As
for Mr Reggy with his swank and his bit of money she could just chuck
him aside as if he was so much filth and never again would she cast as
much as a second thought on him and tear his silly postcard into a
dozen pieces. )_ Here. Crouching by a patient cow at daybreak in the lush field, a witch on
her toadstool, her wrinkled fingers quick at the squirting dugs. Mulligan a gentleman’s gentleman that had but come
from Mr Moore’s the writer’s (that was a papish but is now, folk say, a
good Williamite) chanced against Alec. He’s not going out in bluey specs with the sweat rolling off him to
baptise blacks, is he? The glasses would take their fancy, flashing. Electric dishscrubbers. Good job Milly never got
it. Bloom, nodding,
said he perfectly understood and begged him to go on by all means which
he did. B. )_

     Who. There’s something up. I will prove. For one thing he mightn’t
what you call jump at the idea, if approached, and what mostly worried
him was he didn’t know how to lead up to it or word it exactly,
supposing he did entertain the proposal, as it would afford him very
great personal pleasure if he would allow him to help to put coin in
his way or some wardrobe, if found suitable. _Love’s bitter mystery. OMNIUM GATHERUM


—We were only thinking about it, Stephen said. He can’t make you out. American
soap I bought: elderflower. Dolphin’s Barn Lane
            Dublin. Soft eyes. —My dear Myles, he said, flinging his cigarette aside, you put a false
construction on my words. Mr Power’s soft eyes went up to the apex of the lofty cone. Must be damned unpleasant. The whitesmocked priest came after him, tidying his stole with
one hand, balancing with the other a little book against his toad’s
belly. First to the meet and in at the death. She
felt the warm flush, a danger signal always with Gerty MacDowell,
surging and flaming into her cheeks. Mrs Fleming is in to clean. He left me on my ownio. Takes the biscuit, and talking about bunions. Gone. —And there’s more where that came from, says he. Looking
at the tips of her hairs to see if they are split. STEPHEN: _(Murmurs. )_

BLOOM: Poetry. Passing now. —Shirts, Maggy said. BLOOM: _(Winks at the bystanders. Was vast wealth acquirable through industrial channels?

The reclamation of dunams of waste arenary soil, proposed in the
prospectus of Agendath Netaim, Bleibtreustrasse, Berlin, W. The deepest poetry of Shelley,
the words of Hamlet bring our minds into contact with the eternal
wisdom, Plato’s world of ideas. The one
about the bulletin. Moment more. )_ Their heelmarks will stamp the Brusselette carpet
you bought at Wren’s auction. On the wholesale orders perhaps. )_ We have come here to witness a clean
straight fight and we heartily wish both men the best of good luck. Dear Mr Editor, what is a good cure for flatulence? I’d like
that part. I was at a funeral. Lots of them like that at this moment all over the
world. Bronzedouce communing with her rose that sank and rose sought Blazes
Boylan’s flower and eyes. The floor is covered with an oilcloth mosaic of
jade and azure and cinnabar rhomboids. Round his neck hangs a rosary of corks ending on his breast in a
corkscrew cross. —I came through the museum, Buck Mulligan said. Clank it. Everything was going swimmingly. Old Deasy’s
letter. The gravediggers touched their caps. STEPHEN: In the beginning was the word, in the end the world without
end. Might be settling
my braces. —Day, Mr Byrne. Remember if you do not I will punish you. Hard time she must have
with him. Palefaces:
they hold their ribs with laughter, one clasping another. His arm. )_ Who owns the bleeding tyke?

CISSY CAFFREY: _(With expectation. As he and others see me. Gives him a sense of
power seeing all the others go under first. Well
has it been said that whosoever prays to her with faith and constancy
can never be lost or cast away: and fitly is she too a haven of refuge
for the afflicted because of the seven dolours which transpierced her
own heart. C. _

—_Dominus vobiscum. If it was it was. Sea air sours
it, I heard. Saves them. Better late than never. All gnawed through. of saint Francis
Xavier’s church, upper Gardiner street, stepped on to an outward bound
tram. Hold her nozzle again the bank. Wake up in the dead of night and see
him on the wall, hanging. )_ She’s not here. D. 3. C. Iubilantium te virginum. White breast of the
dim sea. Old Betty’s joints are on the rack. Lapwing. Ten shillings for the gardener. Cruelty to animals so it is to let that bloody
povertystricken Breen out on grass with his beard out tripping him,
bringing down the rain. Bad French I got for my pains. His gun rusty
from the dew. I. )_
I was just beautifying him, don’t you know. In the readers’ book Cashel Boyle O’Connor
Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell parafes his polysyllables. What did he fear?

The committal of homicide or suicide during sleep by an aberration of
the light of reason, the incommensurable categorical intelligence
situated in the cerebral convolutions. Where’s my hat. C. A poor house and a bare
larder, quotha! ’Tis a merry rogue. The problem is to get money. Wait till I wait. I paid the rent. Larches, firs, all the trees of the conifer family are going fast. Hate people all round you. Known as Koch’s preparation. —From the rock of Gibraltar. Fellows run
up a bill on the slate and then slinking around the back streets into
somewhere else. Cheap. At four. Turnkey’s
daughter got him out of Richmond, off from Lusk. They do. Slight spasm, full, chewing
the cud. )_

THE CIRCUMCISED: _(In dark guttural chant as they cast dead sea fruit
upon him, no flowers. That is why the
speech (his lean unlovely English) is always turned elsewhere,
backward. I wanted particularly. James,
the former by his 1d bazaar at 42 George’s street, south, the latter at
his 6 1/2d shop and world’s fancy fair and waxwork exhibition at 30
Henry street, admission 2d, children 1d: and the infinite possibilities
hitherto unexploited of the modern art of advertisement if condensed in
triliteral monoideal symbols, vertically of maximum visibility
(divined), horizontally of maximum legibility (deciphered) and of
magnetising efficacy to arrest involuntary attention, to interest, to
convince, to decide. —Why, answered the seafarer with the tartan beard, who seemingly was a
bit of a literary cove in his own small way, staring out of seagreen
portholes as you might well describe them as, I uses goggles reading. Dwarfs ride them, rustyarmoured,
leaping, leaping in their, in their saddles. Jingle jaunted down the quays. But how to get there was the rub. Pert little piece she was. Museum. Name and address. Proud: rich: silk stockings. Suffer then. Reformed prostitute will address the meeting. JOHN WYSE NOLAN: _(In the background, in Irish National Forester’s
uniform, doffs his plumed hat. —_Per vias rectas_, Mr Deasy said firmly, was his motto. There he tilted his hatbrim to give shade to his eyes
and leaned against the doorcase, looking idly out. Church music. All that’s
left of him. —That’s an awfully good one that’s going the rounds about Reuben J and
the son. Mr Bloom touched her funnybone gently, warning her:

—Mind! Let this man pass. Second drink does it. Card
inside. Tenors get women by the score. He struggled out of his shirt and flung it behind him to where his
clothes lay. Give him ginger. _Nebrakada femininum. _(He bends again and undoes the
buttons of Stephen’s waistcoat. The ladies from their balconies throw down
rosepetals. Sixtyseven is a bitch. Either you believe or
you don’t, isn’t it? Personally I couldn’t stomach that idea of a
personal God. Send
us bright one, light one, Horhorn, quickening and wombfruit. And be damned but he got the rope
round the poor devil and the two were hauled up. Bear with me. Trumpery insanity. More shameless not seeing. BLOOM: Let’s walk on. Hee hee hee hee. Had to be. In Beaver street. )_ The royal Dublins, boys, the salt of
the earth, known the world over. C. Pungent mockturtle oxtail mulligatawny. Turn back. No, by God, says I. Where is that child’s funeral disappeared to?

A team of horses passed from Finglas with toiling plodding tread,
dragging through the funereal silence a creaking waggon on which lay a
granite block. If the accused could speak he could
a tale unfold—one of the strangest that have ever been narrated between
the covers of a book. He strolled out to the doorway. Wonder if she pronounces
that right: _voglio_. Naked
nymphs: Greece: and for instance all the people that lived then. Dressy fellow he
was once. His gaze brooded on his broadtoed boots, a buck’s castoffs,
_nebeneinander_. Addio, caro. A man with an infant’s saucestained napkin tucked
round him shovelled gurgling soup down his gullet. Colours depend on the light you see. I see Bloom put his name down for five shillings. Would the departed never nowhere nohow reappear?

Ever he would wander, selfcompelled, to the extreme limit of his
cometary orbit, beyond the fixed stars and variable suns and telescopic
planets, astronomical waifs and strays, to the extreme boundary of
space, passing from land to land, among peoples, amid events. Life’s dream is o’er. All that old hill has seen. Not hurt anyhow. And he was ware
and saw a franklin that hight Lenehan on that side the table that was
older than any of the tother and for that they both were knights
virtuous in the one emprise and eke by cause that he was elder he spoke
to him full gently. The door of the bar. Imagine trying to eat tripe and
cowheel. Framed
around the walls images of vanished horses stood in homage, their meek
heads poised in air: lord Hastings’ _Repulse_, the duke of
Westminster’s _Shotover_, the duke of Beaufort’s _Ceylon_, _prix de
Paris_, 1866. Haroun al Raschid. Peekaboo. Just as well
to get shut of them as soon as you are sure there’s no. Sargent who alone had lingered came forward slowly, showing an open
copybook. He made tracks heavily, slowly with a dumpy sort of a gait to the door,
stepped heavily down the one step there was out of the shelter and bore
due left. H. Rabbitpie we
had that day. His wives in a row to watch
the effect. Rip:
tear in Henny Doyle’s overcoat. A life
preserver and a nailstudded bludgeon are stuck in his belt. So we went around by the Linenhall barracks and the back of the
courthouse talking of one thing or another. Concert tour. What do you want for ninepence?
Machree, macruiskeen. In the bright light, lightened and cooled in limb, he eyed carefully
his black trousers: the ends, the knees, the houghs of the knees. Mr Bloom was all at sea for a moment, seeing the others evidently
eavesdropping too. _(His forehead veins
swollen, his face congested. Hoopsa boyaboy hoopsa! Hoopsa boyaboy hoopsa! Hoopsa boyaboy hoopsa!

Universally that person’s acumen is esteemed very little perceptive
concerning whatsoever matters are being held as most profitably by
mortals with sapience endowed to be studied who is ignorant of that
which the most in doctrine erudite and certainly by reason of that in
them high mind’s ornament deserving of veneration constantly maintain
when by general consent they affirm that other circumstances being
equal by no exterior splendour is the prosperity of a nation more
efficaciously asserted than by the measure of how far forward may have
progressed the tribute of its solicitude for that proliferent
continuance which of evils the original if it be absent when
fortunately present constitutes the certain sign of omnipollent
nature’s incorrupted benefaction. Science. —He knows which side his bread is buttered, says Alf. Everything pointed to the fact that it behoved
him to avail himself to the full of the opportunity, all things
considered. A charming _soubrette,_ great
Marie Kendall, with dauby cheeks and lifted skirt smiled daubily from
her poster upon William Humble, earl of Dudley, and upon
lieutenantcolonel H. The nocturnal rat peers from
his hole. , if they’re any worse than those Belgians in the
Congo Free State they must be bad. That was a rare bit of
horseflesh. Pity. Couldn’t sink if you tried: so thick with salt. )_ When will I hear the
joke?

ZOE: Before you’re twice married and once a widower. Also smoke in the dark they say
get no pleasure. He knows it well too. Incautiously I took your part when you were accused of pilfering. Glad I took that bath. Five
to three. So warm. Gob, he’d adorn a
sweepingbrush, so he would, if he only had a nurse’s apron on him. Corny
Kelleher gave one wreath to the boy and one to the brother-in-law. Cuckoo. —Just bears out what I was saying, he, with glowing bosom said to
Stephen, about blood and the sun. _(He consoles a widow. They kick out
grand. She loosened many a man’s thighs. Old England is dying. A flying sunny smile rayed in his loose features. A rank outsider. OKS. —Keep your pecker up, says Joe. Saving princes is a thank you job. Tap. Othello black brute. _(She clutches the two crowns. new paganism. You were a student, weren’t you? Of what in the other
devil’s name? Paysayenn. —I’m giving you two lumps each, he said. O sweet little, you don’t
know how nice you looked. I call it a sacrament. Thank you. —What is it? Mr Bloom asked. _(He bares his arm and plunges it elbowdeep in Bloom’s
vulva. He
was, I understand, at one time a firstclass misdemeanant in Glencree
reformatory. The jarvey saved his life by
furious driving as sure as God made Moses. As her eyes then ongot his weeds swart therefor sorrow she feared. The beautiful
ineffectual dreamer who comes to grief against hard facts. I. All parks open to the public
day and night. P. Monkeydoodle
the whole thing. —Ah, I couldn’t, man, Mr Dedalus said, shy, listless. —You are late, he spoke hoarsely, eying her with a suspicious glare. He carries a silverstringed inlaid dulcimer and a
longstemmed bamboo Jacob’s pipe, its clay bowl fashioned as a female
head. Instance, that cat this morning
on the staircase. A man’s a man for a’ that. Where now?

Her secrets: old featherfans, tasselled dancecards, powdered with musk,
a gaud of amber beads in her locked drawer. C. Lord
mayor had his eye on her too. Like stuffed. He is the ghost and the prince. Stephen sat down. Along by the edge of the mole he
lolloped, dawdled, smelt a rock and from under a cocked hindleg pissed
against it. —And a very good initial too, says Joe. Look: look, look, look, look, look: you look
at us. You’ll need to rise precious early, you sinner there, if you
want to diddle the Almighty God. —I’ll tell you a damn good one about comets’ tails, he said. Fierce Italian with carriagewhip. 3. Did he find four separating forces between his temporary guest and him?

Name, age, race, creed. Ah!

_(He disappears into Olhausen’s, the porkbutcher’s, under the
downcoming rollshutter. Lynch, a Scots fellow, Will. Mr Bloom, without evincing surprise, unostentatiously turned over the
card to peruse the partially obliterated address and postmark. Would he understand? The mutes bore the
coffin into the chapel. I
believe in that myself because it has been explained by competent men
as the convolutions of the grey matter. Now
he was laid to rest. Has he forgotten? Perhaps a trick. —There’s only one sense of the word, it seems to me, Stephen said. Or
through M’Coy. Tinge of purple. )_ Esthetics and cosmetics are
for the boudoir. —The most brilliant of all is that story of Wilde’s, Mr Best said,
lifting his brilliant notebook. )_

MRS YELVERTON BARRY: _(Severely. Which is which?

—That’s mine, says Joe, as the devil said to the dead policeman. Briefly, putting two and two together, six sixteen which he pointedly
turned a deaf ear to, Antonio and so forth, jockeys and esthetes and
the tattoo which was all the go in the seventies or thereabouts even in
the house of lords because early in life the occupant of the throne,
then heir apparent, the other members of the upper ten and other high
personages simply following in the footsteps of the head of the state,
he reflected about the errors of notorieties and crowned heads running
counter to morality such as the Cornwall case a number of years before
under their veneer in a way scarcely intended by nature, a thing good
Mrs Grundy, as the law stands, was terribly down on though not for the
reason they thought they were probably whatever it was except women
chiefly who were always fiddling more or less at one another it being
largely a matter of dress and all the rest of it. )_
Loosen his boots. Then too far. Silence!

Pause. Suppose it’s ever so many millions of tiny grains blown
across. Shiny peels: polishes them
up with a rag or a handkerchief. They are
followed by the Right Honourable Joseph Hutchinson, lord mayor of
Dublin, his lordship the lord mayor of Cork, their worships the mayors
of Limerick, Galway, Sligo and Waterford, twentyeight Irish
representative peers, sirdars, grandees and maharajahs bearing the
cloth of estate, the Dublin Metropolitan Fire Brigade, the chapter of
the saints of finance in their plutocratic order of precedence, the
bishop of Down and Connor, His Eminence Michael cardinal Logue,
archbishop of Armagh, primate of all Ireland, His Grace, the most
reverend Dr William Alexander, archbishop of Armagh, primate of all
Ireland, the chief rabbi, the presbyterian moderator, the heads of the
baptist, anabaptist, methodist and Moravian chapels and the honorary
secretary of the society of friends. Then, though it had poured
seven showers, we were neither of us a penny the worse. In a recent public controversy with Mr L. Khaki Hamlets don’t hesitate to shoot. )_ With my tooraloom
tooraloom tooraloom tooraloom. But he must send me _La Vie de
Jésus_ by M. Do you
despise? Jingle, have you the? So excited. M. And would a jury give me five shillings alimony tomorrow,
eh? Fool someone else, not me. For
whom? The hundredheaded rabble of the cathedral close. _ It was ascertained
that the reference was to Mr Cornelius Kelleher, manager of Messrs H. Milly for example drying her handkerchief on the
mirror to save the ironing. )_ Yes,
by Jingo, sixteen three quarters. His unremitting intellect is the hornmad Iago
ceaselessly willing that the moor in him shall suffer. Now, isn’t that wit. He walked along the curbstone. Krandlkrankran. His vacant face stared pityingly at the postscript. Sit tight there. I mean, I don’t
care a button, don’t you know, who is killed or who is guilty. Hee hee hee hee. Too late. Then build them cubicles to end their
days in. If you so condescend
     Then please place at the end
     The name of yours truly, L. _(Dillon’s lacquey rings his handbell. Devilling for the
other firm. There were wounds that wanted
healing with heartbalm. Poor fellow! Quite a boy. )_ He went through a form
of clandestine marriage with at least one woman in the shadow of the
Black church. How are all in Cork’s own town?

—I was down there for the Cork park races on Easter Monday, Ned Lambert
said. Hoo! Not a budge out of him. Dangle that before her. A hobgoblin in the image of Punch Costello,
hipshot, crookbacked, hydrocephalic, prognathic with receding forehead
and Ally Sloper nose, tumbles in somersaults through the gathering
darkness. POST 110
PILLS. Martin asked me to go to the house. 29 p. In what order of precedence, with what attendant ceremony was the
exodus from the house of bondage to the wilderness of inhabitation
effected?

Lighted Candle in Stick borne by
BLOOM
Diaconal Hat on Ashplant borne by
STEPHEN

With what intonation _secreto_ of what commemorative psalm?

The 113th, _modus peregrinus: In exitu Israël de Egypto: domus Jacob de
populo barbaro_. Still if bullet only went through my coat get damages
for shock, five hundred pounds. —God, isn’t he dreadful? he said frankly. Pardies and rendered into Engliſh by John Harris D. The last farewell was affecting in the extreme. What
do they love? Another themselves? But the morning she chased her with
the umbrella. )_ Has poor little hubby cold feet waiting so long?

BLOOM: _(Shifts from foot to foot. )_ There? In the open air?

THE YEWS: _(Sweeping downward. Hence those snores. Hot and cold
in the same breath. The visible signs of postsatisfaction?

A silent contemplation: a tentative velation: a gradual abasement: a
solicitous aversion: a proximate erection. —What way is he taking us? Mr Power asked through both windows. Prevent. She folded the card into her untidy bag and snapped the catch. If he. You know I had a
soft corner for you. The moral idea seems lacking, the sense of destiny,
of retribution. O’Neill’s popular funeral establishment, a personal friend of the
defunct, who had been responsible for the carrying out of the interment
arrangements. —I escort a suppliant, Mr O’Madden Burke said melodiously. She said it would look nice over the bed. A pallid suetfaced
young man polished his tumbler knife fork and spoon with his napkin. He
waits while you wait. The mourners split and moved to each side of the hole,
stepping with care round the graves. 1. _(Laughter. Father Conmee read in secret _Pater_ and _Ave_ and crossed his breast. Come on. BOYLAN: _(Jumps surely from the car and calls loudly for all to hear. Language no whit worse than his. )_ This is no place for indecent levity at
the expense of an erring mortal disguised in liquor. The marquee umbrella sways drunkenly, the children run
aside. Desolation. Not, of course, with a hole and corner scratch company or
local ladies on the job, witness Mrs C P M’Coy type lend me your valise
and I’ll post you the ticket. Every word is so deep, Leopold. A
primrose doublet, fortune’s knave, smiled on my fear. Twenty years he dallied there between conjugial love and its
chaste delights and scortatory love and its foul pleasures. They tolled the hour: loud dark iron. The air is perfumed with essences. Did that first division, portending a second division, afflict him?

Less than he had imagined, more than he had hoped. Change here for
Bawdyhouse. —If you want it, Stephen said. Smells of men. Gibraltar. Are you from the
west, sir?

—I am an Englishman, Haines answered. At four, she said. Nature abhors a vacuum. He was humane and
honoured there. What special affinities appeared to him to exist between the moon and
woman?

Her antiquity in preceding and surviving successive tellurian
generations: her nocturnal predominance: her satellitic dependence: her
luminary reflection: her constancy under all her phases, rising and
setting by her appointed times, waxing and waning: the forced
invariability of her aspect: her indeterminate response to
inaffirmative interrogation: her potency over effluent and refluent
waters: her power to enamour, to mortify, to invest with beauty, to
render insane, to incite to and aid delinquency: the tranquil
inscrutability of her visage: the terribility of her isolated dominant
implacable resplendent propinquity: her omens of tempest and of calm:
the stimulation of her light, her motion and her presence: the
admonition of her craters, her arid seas, her silence: her splendour,
when visible: her attraction, when invisible. Bend down let something fall see if she. I’m sorry to hear that. Horrid! And gold flushed more. J. Not
come: whet appetite. And to
think that she was a pawnbroker! Well, now! Such a. Who distilled first? Some chap
in the blues. Messenger took out his matchbox thoughtfully and lit his cigar. Clerk with the glasses there doesn’t know me. The chords harped slower. His fustian shirt,
sanguineflowered, trembles its Spanish tassels at his secrets. The strength it gives a man. The Son striving to be atoned with the
Father. Hypnotised,
listening. A vestal’s lamp. —That’s your glorious British navy, says the citizen, that bosses the
earth. BLOOM: Thank you, sir. Bloom ungyved his crisscrossed hands and with slack fingers plucked the
slender catgut thong. And now, Mr Crimmins, may we have the honour of your custom
again, sir. Though they stink yet they sting. Obviously mammal in
weight of bosom you remark that she has in front well to the fore two
protuberances of very respectable dimensions, inclined to fall in the
noonday soupplate, while on her rere lower down are two additional
protuberances, suggestive of potent rectum and tumescent for palpation,
which leave nothing to be desired save compactness. _

His listeners held their cigarettes poised to hear, their smokes
ascending in frail stalks that flowered with his speech. Hired
dog! Shoot him to bloody bits with a bang shotgun, bits man spattered
walls all brass buttons. Like pickled pork. BLOOM: When you made your present choice they said it was beauty and
the beast. In Ireland?

The cliffs of Moher, the windy wilds of Connemara, lough Neagh with
submerged petrified city, the Giant’s Causeway, Fort Camden and Fort
Carlisle, the Golden Vale of Tipperary, the islands of Aran, the
pastures of royal Meath, Brigid’s elm in Kildare, the Queen’s Island
shipyard in Belfast, the Salmon Leap, the lakes of Killarney. A tide westering,
moondrawn, in her wake. Calf covers of pissedon green. I
don’t see it, that’s all. —Look at the young guttersnipe behind him hue and cry, Lenehan said,
and you’ll kick. But there’s one thing he’ll never do. What? Perhaps the sticks dry
rub together in the wind and light. BELLA: I know you, canvasser! Dead cod!

BLOOM: I saw him, kipkeeper! Pox and gleet vendor!

BELLA: _(Turns to the piano. Cheese digests all
but itself. _
By God, he wasn’t far wide of the mark. His boots trod again a
damp crackling mast, razorshells, squeaking pebbles, that on the
unnumbered pebbles beats, wood sieved by the shipworm, lost Armada. She was glad that something told her to put on the
transparent stockings thinking Reggy Wylie might be out but that was
far away. Lynch, did I show you
the letter about the lute?

FLORRY: _(Smirking. Photo girl he calls her. Fibres of fine fine straw. But then the allusion is lost. Saint
Joseph’s church, Portland row. —And a third, Stephen said, there is who wants me for odd jobs. Then you’d
sing, Simon, like a garden thrush. Like that Peter or Denis or James Carey that blew the gaff on
the invincibles. Why? Because they are imbued with the proper
spirit. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1. Troops deploy. A figure of middle height on the prowl evidently under the arches
saluted again, calling:

—Night!

Stephen of course started rather dizzily and stopped to return the
compliment. When was it not Atkinson his card I have somewhere. —The burden of proof is with you not with me, he said frowning. —How many children did he leave?

—Five. Incog!

ZOE: _(In the doorway. _Jetez la gourme. Man
loves her yoni fiercely with big lingam, the stiff one. )_ O, they played that on the hobbyhorses at the
_Mirus_ bazaar!

_(She runs to Stephen. We must be quick. Want to fix it up. His downcast eyes followed the silent veining of the oaken slab. They
look terrible the women. He helped her to
unload her tray. Bronze and rose. Her he asked if O’Hare Doctor
tidings sent from far coast and she with grameful sigh him answered
that O’Hare Doctor in heaven was. —That’s the style, Mr Dedalus said, nodding to its drone. He beat his hand upon his breast, confessing: _mea culpa. Mean bloody scut. And the other one? Iron nails ran in. To the end of the bar to him she bore lightly the spiked and winding
seahorn that he, George Lidwell, solicitor, might hear. Where the deuce did he pop out of? He wasn’t in the
chapel, that I’ll swear. Conscience. A squad of
others, marching irregularly, rounded Trinity railings making for the
station. Sudden bent. Jesus! If I fell over a
cliff that beetles o’er his base, fell through the _nebeneinander_
ineluctably! I am getting on nicely in the dark. Someway in his. And he wants it copied if it’s not too late I told
councillor Nannetti from the _Kilkenny People_. Funeral
of the late Mr Patrick Dignam. It lay beneath him, a bowl of bitter waters. Like princes, faith. —Man delights him not nor woman neither, Stephen said. Henpecked husband. William ✠. Then it fetched up three coins from his trousers’ pocket and laid them
on the rubber prickles. Bartle the Bread we calls him. If I could only find out about octaves. Wonder did he put that
bible to the same use as I would. Preacher is he:

All gone. Mr Power’s choked laugh burst quietly in the carriage. He lays aside the lapboard whereon he drafts his bills of costs for the
eyes of master Goff and master Shapland Tandy, filing consents and
common searches and a writ of _Duces Tecum_. She had saved him from
being trampled underfoot and had gone, scarcely having been. About a million barrels all the
same. She half smiled at him wanly, a sweet forgiving smile,
a smile that verged on tears, and then they parted. —I’m going, Mulligan, he said. Russell. Because it’s all
arranged. Done anyhow. Deathmoths. Why they fear vermin, creeping things. Bloom heard a jing, a little sound. Even so
did they come and set them, those willing nymphs, the undying sisters. BLOOM: _(Closing her eyes. Then all being gone, a glance of motherwit helping, he whispers
close in going: Madam, when comes the storkbird for thee?

The air without is impregnated with raindew moisture, life essence
celestial, glistening on Dublin stone there under starshiny _coelum. Icarus. In the nature of single blessedness he would one day
take unto himself a wife when Miss Right came on the scene but in the
interim ladies’ society was a _conditio sine qua non_ though he had the
gravest possible doubts, not that he wanted in the smallest to pump
Stephen about Miss Ferguson (who was very possibly the particular
lodestar who brought him down to Irishtown so early in the morning), as
to whether he would find much satisfaction basking in the boy and girl
courtship idea and the company of smirking misses without a penny to
their names bi or triweekly with the orthodox preliminary canter of
complimentplaying and walking out leading up to fond lovers’ ways and
flowers and chocs. And take a piece of that bun. Seems a sort of a joke. When first he saw. Dark devilish appearance. Buck Mulligan, his pious eyes upturned, prayed:

—Blessed Margaret Mary Anycock!

—And Harry of six wives’ daughter. He approached Larry O’Rourke’s. A sprawled
form sneezes. Tried it. And one time he led him the rounds of
Dublin and, by the holy farmer, he never cried crack till he brought
him home as drunk as a boiled owl and he said he did it to teach him
the evils of alcohol and by herrings, if the three women didn’t near
roast him, it’s a queer story, the old one, Bloom’s wife and Mrs O’Dowd
that kept the hotel. His eyes followed the high figure in homespun, beard and bicycle, a
listening woman at his side. I smiled back. )_ We’ll manure you, Mr Flower! _(He
pipes scoffingly. So it returns. A letter. Sad thing about poor
Dignam, Mr O’Rourke. )_ I see her! It’s she! The first night at Mat
Dillon’s! But that dress, the green! And her hair is dyed gold and
he. Your starving eyes and
allbeplastered neck you stole my heart, O gluepot. As a philosopher
he knew that at the termination of any allotted life only an
infinitesimal part of any person’s desires has been realised. Looking for grub. The counterbalance of her
proficiency of judgment regarding one person, proved true by
experiment. Sucking, they scatter
slowly. Then they’ll all see it in the paper and read my name printed and pa’s
name. Why didn’t you tell me
before. Be worse
for him, says he, nor any Rooshian. What does he do? Wasn’t he in the stationery
line? I fell foul of him one evening, I remember, at bowls. A. Their wide open eyes looked at him. always. Assurances were given that the matter would be attended to and it was
intimated that this had given satisfaction. He turned into Cumberland street and, going on some paces, halted in
the lee of the station wall. MRS BELLINGHAM: He addressed me in several handwritings with fulsome
compliments as a Venus in furs and alleged profound pity for my
frostbound coachman Palmer while in the same breath he expressed
himself as envious of his earflaps and fleecy sheepskins and of his
fortunate proximity to my person, when standing behind my chair wearing
my livery and the armorial bearings of the Bellingham escutcheon
garnished sable, a buck’s head couped or. Ah? So. Love’s old sweet song. Selling bazaar tickets or what do you call it royal
Hungarian privileged lottery. —The assistant town clerk’s corns are giving him some trouble, John
Wyse Nolan told Mr Power. Still candour compelled him to
admit he had washed his wife’s undergarments when soiled in Holles
street and women would and did too a man’s similar garments initialled
with Bewley and Draper’s marking ink (hers were, that is) if they
really loved him, that is to say, love me, love my dirty shirt. A dying scrawl. What, the enclosures of reticence removed, were their respective
parentages?

Bloom, only born male transubstantial heir of Rudolf Virag
(subsequently Rudolph Bloom) of Szombathely, Vienna, Budapest, Milan,
London and Dublin and of Ellen Higgins, second daughter of Julius
Higgins (born Karoly) and Fanny Higgins (born Hegarty). Bald Pat. —Well, what is it? he said, stopping. —I want that to be printed and read, Mr Deasy said. _(He assumes the avine head, foxy moustache and proboscidal
eloquence of Seymour Bushe. Unheeded he kept by them
as they came towards the drier sand, a rag of wolf’s tongue redpanting
from his jaws. )_ Great unjust God!

FLORRY: _(Offended. Birds are
like hopping mice. Clockhands
turning. Creation from nothing. Other I got
pound. The other gets rather tiresome,
never withering. B. Influence of the climate. —Miaow! he said in answer. Pandybat. —Is that a good Christ, says Bob Doran, to take away poor little Willy
Dignam?

—Ah, well, says Alf, trying to pass it off. They don’t care. The car
jingles tooraloom round the corner of the tooraloom lane. Fine poem that is:
Ingram. I daresay he needs it to sleep
somewhere. The vocal muse. Changed since the first letter. )_ We immortals, as you saw today, have not such a
place and no hair there either. Bloom himself. O’Molloy
slapped the heavy pages over. Yet he was young and perchance he
might learn to love her in time. Then mayhap he would embrace her gently, like a real man,
crushing her soft body to him, and love her, his ownest girlie, for
herself alone. It was held to be
sufficient evidence of malice in the testcase Sadgrove v. STEPHEN: _(Triumphaliter. For him! For Raoul!_

Yes. )_

_(Over the well of the car Blazes Boylan leans, his boater straw set
sideways, a red flower in his mouth. Her shoes
were the newest thing in footwear (Edy Boardman prided herself that she
was very _petite_ but she never had a foot like Gerty MacDowell, a
five, and never would ash, oak or elm) with patent toecaps and just one
smart buckle over her higharched instep. Poor old bockedy Ben! He’s always
doing a good turn for someone. —Who wants a dead cert for the Gold cup? he asked. He heard
you pissed on his halldoor in Glasthule. Because he more than suspected he had his father’s voice to
bank his hopes on which it was quite on the cards he had so it would be
just as well, by the way no harm, to trail the conversation in the
direction of that particular red herring just to. Good Christ, only five. )_ Have mercy on Stephen,
Lord, for my sake! Inexpressible was my anguish when expiring with
love, grief and agony on Mount Calvary. Then he put on his hat again, relieved: and read again: choice
blend, made of the finest Ceylon brands. FLORRY: _(Pointing. Citronlemon? Ah, the soap
I put there. _ Can you?

Mulligan, nine pounds, three pairs of socks, one pair brogues, ties. A hand plucking the
harpstrings, merging their twining chords. The northeast corner. Ten minutes. BLOOM: Yes. Smile Cranly’s smile. Day I caught
her in the street pinching her cheeks to make them red. Three drams of usquebaugh you drank with Dan
Deasy’s ducats. bend low. Then rigid with left foot advanced he makes a swift
pass with impelling fingers and gives the sign of past master, drawing
his right arm downwards from his left shoulder. It
never reaches anything or stops anything. Together (she is a poor waif, a child
of shame, yours and mine and of all for a bare shilling and her
luckpenny), together they hear the heavy tread of the watch as two
raincaped shadows pass the new royal university. Yes, some
spinach. Hanging by his heels in the odour of sanctity. È
peccato. )_ O, it’s hell itself! Every nerve in my body aches
like mad!

BELLO: _(Shouts. Stephen stood at his post,
gazing over the calm sea towards the headland. BOYLAN: _(Holding up four thick bluntungulated fingers, winks. Belfry up there. _
He’s as bad as old Antonio. Do you want to go to Molesworth street?

—Yes, the stripling answered. He waited till she had laid the card aside and curled herself back
slowly with a snug sigh. Good for the country. That’s press. ; the rev. Feel my royal weight. All raised their thighs and eyed with disfavour the mildewed buttonless
leather of the seats. It is in infinite variety
everywhere in the world he has created, in _Much Ado about Nothing_,
twice in _As you like It_, in _The Tempest_, in _Hamlet,_ in _Measure
for Measure_—and in all the other plays which I have not read. The earl of Dublin, no less. Goddess I didn’t see. Rudy. O more. As on the first day he bargained with me here. —I knew you couldn’t, he said joyously. —He is, says Joe. Yogibogeybox in Dawson chambers. Knock at the door. Gott. Mrs Ellis’s. I believe they clip the
nails and the hair. Out of the fryingpan of life into the
fire of purgatory. He lifted his
brown straw hat, saluting Paddy Dignam. —God Almighty couldn’t make him drunk, Nosey Flynn said firmly. _(Massed bands blare_ Garryowen _and_ God save the King. _—If anyone thinks that I amn’t divine
He’ll get no free drinks when I’m making the wine
But have to drink water and wish it were plain
That I make when the wine becomes water again. Heart of gold really. Nosey Flynn snuffled and scratched. 24). She drew down
pensive (why did he go so quick when I?) about her bronze, over the bar
where bald stood by sister gold, inexquisite contrast, contrast
inexquisite nonexquisite, slow cool dim seagreen sliding depth of
shadow, _eau de Nil. )_ O, yes! O God, yes! O, make the kwawr a
krowawr! O! Bo!

_(Casqued halberdiers in armour thrust forward a pentice of gutted
spearpoints. Discussing these and kindred topics they made a beeline across the back
of the Customhouse and passed under the Loop Line bridge where a
brazier of coke burning in front of a sentrybox or something like one
attracted their rather lagging footsteps. High on Ben Howth
rhododendrons a nannygoat walking surefooted, dropping currants. O’Callaghan on his last legs. _—Non intres in judicium cum servo tuo, Domine. Grin and bear it. —_But alas, ’twas idle dreaming_. Father
Conmee smiled and nodded and smiled and walked along Mountjoy square
east. Rather stale smell that incense leaves
next day. Bloom, holding in his hand Stephen’s hat, festooned with shavings,
and ashplant, stands irresolute. Bloom picks it up and
throws it in the grate. May I trespass on your valuable space. A low incipient note sweet banshee
murmured: all. Goldpinnacled hair. Communication was
effected through the pituitary body and also by means of the
orangefiery and scarlet rays emanating from the sacral region and solar
plexus. I am exhausted, abandoned, no more young. Yes, bronze from anearby. Tom Rochford. I think you’re getting on very nicely. I heard that. The grub is ready. That was a brilliant idea, Bob. Before Rudy was born. They are
not Boyl: no, M’Glade’s men. —I’ll go through the printingworks, Mr Bloom said, taking the cut
square. )_ O, excuse!

ZOE: More limelight, Charley. )_

STEPHEN: Ho!

_(Stephen’s mother, emaciated, rises stark through the floor, in leper
grey with a wreath of faded orangeblossoms and a torn bridal veil, her
face worn and noseless, green with gravemould. Adhuc. Bring in our chippendale chair. _Mingo, minxi, mictum, mingere. Which volume was the largest in bulk?

Hozier’s _History of the Russo-Turkish War. When he had reached the schoolhouse voices again contending called to
him. In drowsy silence gold bent on her page. In words of words for words,
palabras. ) Et omnes ad quos pervenit aqua ista_. The
least tholice. Got a pectoral
trauma, eh, Dix? Pos fact. On quietly creaky boots he went up the staircase to the hall, paused by
the bedroom door. Then
he screwed his features up someway sideways and glared out into the
night with an unprepossessing cast of countenance. Edy straightened up baby Boardman to get ready to go and Cissy tucked
in the ball and the spades and buckets and it was high time too because
the sandman was on his way for Master Boardman junior. RETURN OF BLOOM


—Yes, he said. O, cheese it! Shut his blurry Dutch oven with a firm
hand. So of course Bob Doran starts doing the bloody fool with him:

—Give us the paw! Give the paw, doggy! Good old doggy! Give the paw
here! Give us the paw!

Arrah, bloody end to the paw he’d paw and Alf trying to keep him from
tumbling off the bloody stool atop of the bloody old dog and he talking
all kinds of drivel about training by kindness and thoroughbred dog and
intelligent dog: give you the bloody pip. )_ Our great sweet mother!
_Epi oinopa ponton. Still their neigh can be very irritating. These heavy sands are language tide and wind
have silted here. )_ Rarely smoke, dear. _Encore vingt sous. V. Of John Thomas, her spouse. —We can do that, he said. They buy up all the juicy ones. The eyes in
which a tear and a smile strove ever for the mastery were of the
dimensions of a goodsized cauliflower. The words are those of my
lords bishops of Maynooth. Alleluia. Made me laugh to see. I remember those tight trousers too. Accordingly he broke his mind to his neighbour, saying that, to express
his notion of the thing, his opinion (who ought not perchance to
express one) was that one must have a cold constitution and a frigid
genius not to be rejoiced by this freshest news of the fruition of her
confinement since she had been in such pain through no fault of hers. I’m very fond of what I like. You can’t lick ’em. Last time I
was here was Mrs Sinico’s funeral. Master
Lenehan at this made return that he had heard of those nefarious deeds
and how, as he heard hereof counted, he had besmirched the lily virtue
of a confiding female which was corruption of minors and they all
intershowed it too, waxing merry and toasting to his fathership. BLOOM: How?

VIRAG: _(A diabolic rictus of black luminosity contracting his visage,
cranes his scraggy neck forward. He speaks the words to
Burbage, the young player who stands before him beyond the rack of
cerecloth, calling him by a name:

     Hamlet, I am thy father’s spirit,

bidding him list. Moisel, J. About her windraw face hair
trailed. Also that now is magnetism. Not even a caw. —For Willie Hughes, is it not? the quaker librarian asked. One of those chaps would make short work of a fellow. And Joe asked him would he have
another. ; the very rev. Landlord,
landlord, have you good wine, staboo? Hoots, mon, a wee drap to pree. Clipclap. Pensive (who knows?), smitten (the smiting
light), she lowered the dropblind with a sliding cord. He walked on past Bolton’s Westmoreland house. He began to check it
silently. And would he not
accept to die like the rest and pass away? By no means would he though
he must nor would he make more shows according as men do with wives
which Phenomenon has commanded them to do by the book Law. Won’t sleep, though. Mr Deasy halted, breathing hard and swallowing his breath. —Will you join us, Myles? Ned Lambert asked. )_

PHILIP SOBER: Take a fool’s advice. Longindying call. Bow, bondslave, before the
throne of your despot’s glorious heels so glistening in their proud
erectness. _(She drops two pennies in the slot. Timothy Harrington, late
thrice Lord Mayor of Dublin, imposing in mayoral scarlet, gold chain
and white silk tie, confers with councillor Lorcan Sherlock,_ locum
tenens. His first
bow to the public. Whisky and water on the brain. Roastbeef for
old England. _(Tenderly, as he slips
on her finger a ruby ring. Added to which was the coincidence of meeting, discussion, dance,
row, old salt of the here today and gone tomorrow type, night loafers,
the whole galaxy of events, all went to make up a miniature cameo of
the world we live in especially as the lives of the submerged tenth,
viz. Solitary. We were very pleased, we others. You and I are the fat in the fire. Women
too. E. Still life. Veils fall. So. )_

STEPHEN: A time, times and half a time. Karma they call that transmigration
for sins you did in a past life the reincarnation met him pike hoses. —I just wanted to say, he said. Bertha Supple
told that once to Edy Boardman, a deliberate lie, when she was black
out at daggers drawn with Gerty (the girl chums had of course their
little tiffs from time to time like the rest of mortals) and she told
her not to let on whatever she did that it was her that told her or
she’d never speak to her again. )_ Respect
yourself. The first in the lilacgarden of Matthew Dillon’s house, Medina
Villa, Kimmage road, Roundtown, in 1887, in the company of Stephen’s
mother, Stephen being then of the age of 5 and reluctant to give his
hand in salutation. Virag
from Hungary! Ahasuerus I call him. and write _by return_ to your longing

Martha


P. —Better, said Tomgin Kernan. Nelson’s pillar. Hundred to
five. —Poor little thing, Mr Dedalus said. —The spirit of reconciliation, the quaker librarian breathed. She was no more: the trembling skeleton of a twig burnt in
the fire, an odour of rosewood and wetted ashes. —Nothing in black and white, Nosey Flynn said. Martin Cunningham twirled more quickly the peak of his beard. Amid tense expectation the
Portobello bruiser was being counted out when Bennett’s second Ole
Pfotts Wettstein threw in the towel and the Santry boy was declared
victor to the frenzied cheers of the public who broke through the
ringropes and fairly mobbed him with delight. Who was telling me? Mervyn Browne. Somewhere in the east: early morning: set off at
dawn. Or a lilt. Edward and S. Not for sale. Dignam of Menton’s office that was, Martin Cunningham
said. Or Hughie Wills? Mr William Himself. )_ Yes, yes. Vobiscuits. , the cattle traders. Wait while you hee. One
time he would be a playactor, then a sutler or a welsher, then nought
would keep him from the bearpit and the cocking main, then he was for
the ocean sea or to hoof it on the roads with the romany folk,
kidnapping a squire’s heir by favour of moonlight or fecking maids’
linen or choking chicken behind a hedge. I’m not going tomorrow
either, stay away till Monday. Baddybad Stephen
lead astray goodygood Malachi. To think of him house and homeless, rooked by some
landlady worse than any stepmother, was really too bad at his age. I saw that picture somewhere I forget now old master or
faked for money. M. Mr Bloom,
scarcely knowing which way to look, turned away on the moment
flusterfied but outwardly calm, and, picking up from the table the pink
sheet of the Abbey street organ which the jarvey, if such he was, had
laid aside, he picked it up and looked at the pink of the paper though
why pink. _


_Honoured sir i beg to offer my services in the abovementioned painful
case i hanged Joe Gann in Bootle jail on the 12 of Febuary 1900 and i
hanged. —And Pontius Pilate is its prophet, professor MacHugh responded. m. Like actresses,
always farewell positively last performance then come up smiling again. _Deus in adiutorium. —That bitch, that English whore, did for him, the shebeen proprietor
commented. )_ How? Very unpleasant. All wrong of
course. Strange
feeling it would be. —One corned and cabbage. Van: breadvan delivering. Gets on your
nerves. It’s them black lads I objects
to. Remedy where you least
expect it. —Where do you begin in this? Stephen asked, opening another book. Glowing wine on his palate lingered swallowed. And when her mother had those raging splitting headaches who was
it rubbed the menthol cone on her forehead but Gerty though she didn’t
like her mother’s taking pinches of snuff and that was the only single
thing they ever had words about, taking snuff. Dilly Dedalus, loitering by the curbstone, heard the beats of the bell,
the cries of the auctioneer within. Didn’t cost him a red like Maginni the
dancing master self advertisement. You too have fought the good fight and played loyally
your man’s part. Still like you better untidy. This owner, that. Graft, my dear sir. Miss Douce composed her rose to wait. ZOE: Silent means consent. Welcome as the flowers in May. But who was Gerty?

Gerty MacDowell who was seated near her companions, lost in thought,
gazing far away into the distance was, in very truth, as fair a
specimen of winsome Irish girlhood as one could wish to see. Feast of Our Lady of
Mount Carmel. _Sceptre_ a shade
heavier. The grandest number,
Stephen, in the whole opera. )_
Hurt my hand somewhere. Chilly place this. To which absorbing piece of intelligence echo answered
why. _(He holds out a forefinger. A Monday morning, ’twas so, indeed. —We are a long time waiting for that day, citizen, says Ned. Do
it in the shake of a lamb’s tail. Poached eyes on ghost. P. Cruelty behind it all. _That one, is it?_
says Chris Callinan, _sure that’s only what you might call a pinprick. Too full for
words. Proceed to nearest canteen and there annex
liquor stores. )_ Ladies and gentlemen, my
educated greyhound. Just round to the court a moment to see if Martin is
there. [ 6 ]


Martin Cunningham, first, poked his silkhatted head into the creaking
carriage and, entering deftly, seated himself. LENEHAN: _(Smells gleefully. _(To Bloom. )_ I’m not a bad one. Black wary hecat
walked towards Richie Goulding’s legal bag, lifted aloft, saluting. Wonder
have I time for a bath this morning. *    *    *


Two pink faces turned in the flare of the tiny torch. I can watch it flow past from here. And here crowns. (because the one who married the elder brother would be Mrs
Wylie) and in the fashionable intelligence Mrs Gertrude Wylie was
wearing a sumptuous confection of grey trimmed with expensive blue fox
was not to be. How?

By various reiterated feminine interrogation concerning the masculine
destination whither, the place where, the time at which, the duration
for which, the object with which in the case of temporary absences,
projected or effected. In his way. —As it should be, Mr Kernan said. L. All the people are looking at you. Mastiansky
and Citron approach in gaberdines, wearing long earlocks. His eyes grow
dull, darker and pouched, his nose thickens. I smiled at him. —_La cloche!_ cried gleeful Lenehan. Will
some pleashe pershon not now impediment so catastrophics mit agitation
of firstclass tablenumpkin? _(He mews. Arthur Griffith is a
squareheaded fellow but he has no go in him for the mob. Gorgonzola, have you?

—Yes, sir. _(The face of Martin Cunningham, bearded, refeatures Shakespeare’s
beardless face. Bronzelydia by Minagold. )_

FLORRY: They say the last day is coming this summer. Debit
                                        £. _(He laughs. Wonder who’s playing. Lapwing. Have birds no smell? Metempsychosis. Saucy knave! To us!

So saying he knocked loudly with his swordhilt upon the open lattice. They believe in rod, the scourger almighty, creator of hell upon earth,
and in Jacky Tar, the son of a gun, who was conceived of unholy boast,
born of the fighting navy, suffered under rump and dozen, was
scarified, flayed and curried, yelled like bloody hell, the third day
he arose again from the bed, steered into haven, sitteth on his beamend
till further orders whence he shall come to drudge for a living and be
paid. Must be getting on for nine by the light. —I can’t make out why the corporation doesn’t run a tramline from the
parkgate to the quays, Mr Bloom said. Lent it to his friend. Gordon Bennett cup. DR DIXON: _(Reads a bill of health. For the enlightenment of those who are not so intimately
acquainted with the minutiae of the municipal abattoir as this
morbidminded esthete and embryo philosopher who for all his overweening
bumptiousness in things scientific can scarcely distinguish an acid
from an alkali prides himself on being, it should perhaps be stated
that staggering bob in the vile parlance of our lowerclass licensed
victuallers signifies the cookable and eatable flesh of a calf newly
dropped from its mother. Lovephiltres. Miss Kennedy lipped her cup again, raised, drank a sip and
gigglegiggled. Have a finger in the pie. His bangle bracelets fall. Probably he killed her. His thinsocked ankles were tickled by the stubble of
Clongowes field. Drink till they puke again like christians. Halt!
Heave to. A bony form strode along the curbstone from the river staring with a
rapt gaze into the sunlight through a heavystringed glass. What’s this? Bit of stick. They had a gay old time while it lasted. Dewdrop coming down
again. Having set it to draw he took
off the kettle, crushed the pan flat on the live coals and watched the
lump of butter slide and melt. Treats him with scorn. A server bearing a brass bucket with something in it came out through a
door. Day: then the night. I will not sleep there when
this night comes. To mind her
stops. )_ Locomotor ataxy. Parallax. No. —By Jove, he mused, I often wanted to see the Mourne mountains. —You got more than that, father, Dilly said. Yes. Greene B. Since the
poor old woman told us that the French were on the sea and landed at
Killala. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. With careful tread he passed over a hopscotch
court with its forgotten pickeystone. I see what it means. J. They understand what we say better than we
understand them. A porterbottle
stood up, stogged to its waist, in the cakey sand dough. I’ll tell
him. What’s our studfee? What will you pay on
the nail? You fee mendancers on the Riviera, I read. They drink in order to say or do something or _cherchez la
femme_. Wretched brutes there at the cattlemarket waiting for the poleaxe
to split their skulls open. Fitzgerald. His heart quopped softly. Again Kennygiggles, stooping, her
fair pinnacles of hair, stooping, her tortoise napecomb showed,
spluttered out of her mouth her tea, choking in tea and laughter,
coughing with choking, crying:

—O greasy eyes! Imagine being married to a man like that! she cried. Again: a goal. Believes me dead, rocked in the cradle of the
deep. Glad I didn’t know it when she was
on show. After a brisk exchange of courtesies during
which a smart upper cut of the military man brought blood freely from
his opponent’s mouth the lamb suddenly waded in all over his man and
landed a terrific left to Battling Bennett’s stomach, flooring him
flat. Who is my neighbour? Jammed by the hour to slow
music. )_ Forgive him
his trespasses. Dressed up to the nines for somebody. —A beautiful air, said Bloom lost Leopold. He had his answer pat for everything. K is Knockmaroon
gate. First
the stiff: then the friends of the stiff. That’ll do now. They talked seriously of mocker’s seriousness. )_ That the cows with their those
distended udders that they have been the the known. Fifteen yesterday. Here goes. End of school. Merciful providence had been pleased to put a period to the sufferings
of the lady who was _enceinte_ which she had borne with a laudable
fortitude and she had given birth to a bouncing boy. Barrel of Bass. Changing about. A girl playing one of
those instruments what do you call them: dulcimers. So then the citizen begins talking about the Irish language and the
corporation meeting and all to that and the shoneens that can’t speak
their own language and Joe chipping in because he stuck someone for a
quid and Bloom putting in his old goo with his twopenny stump that he
cadged off of Joe and talking about the Gaelic league and the
antitreating league and drink, the curse of Ireland. What future careers had been possible for Bloom in the past and with
what exemplars?

In the church, Roman, Anglican or Nonconformist: exemplars, the very
reverend John Conmee S. Apply for the Chiltern Hundreds and retire into public life. And J. Myles Crawford blew his first puff violently towards the ceiling. Happy. They. The
gardens of Alameda knew her step: the garths of olives knew and bowed. Could hear a pin drop. Onions of his breath came across the counter out of his ruined mouth. In Horne’s house rest should reign. Plasters on a sore
eye. Stephen turned in surprise. My casque and sword. Immediate silence. )_ The bomb is here. Though not an implicit believer in the lurid story narrated (or the
eggsniping transaction for that matter despite William Tell and the
Lazarillo-Don Cesar de Bazan incident depicted in _Maritana_ on which
occasion the former’s ball passed through the latter’s hat) having
detected a discrepancy between his name (assuming he was the person he
represented himself to be and not sailing under false colours after
having boxed the compass on the strict q. It’s
the clock is worked by an electric wire from Dunsink. —Are those yours, Mary?

—I don’t wear such things. In dark
corner young man seated. It is between the
lines of his last written words, it is petrified on his tombstone under
which her four bones are not to be laid. _

STEPHEN: _(Eagerly. )_

_(The subsheriff Long John Fanning appears, smoking a pungent Henry
Clay. There is to be a concert in the Greville Arms on Saturday. A white yashmak, violet in the night, covers her face,
leaving free only her large dark eyes and raven hair. Is the gentleman?. The _élite. Blazes Boylan walked here and there in new tan shoes about the
fruitsmelling shop, lifting fruits, young juicy crinkled and plump red
tomatoes, sniffing smells. This wet is very unpleasant. But the court wanton spurned him for a lord, his dearmylove. Bannon in a cut bob (which are
now in with dance cloaks of Kendal green) that was new got to town from
Mullingar with the stage where his coz and Mal M’s brother will stay a
month yet till Saint Swithin and asks what in the earth he does there,
he bound home and he to Andrew Horne’s being stayed for to crush a cup
of wine, so he said, but would tell him of a skittish heifer, big of
her age and beef to the heel, and all this while poured with rain and
so both together on to Horne’s. _(Milly Bloom, fairhaired, greenvested, slimsandalled, her blue scarf
in the seawind simply swirling, breaks from the arms of her lover and
calls, her young eyes wonderwide. ed, particularly Stephen,
always assuming that there was such a thing to be found. And _Madame_. Scarlet runners. Yet
Eve and the serpent contradicts. Sends them to the rightabout. *    *    *


William Humble, earl of Dudley, and lady Dudley, accompanied by
lieutenantcolonel Heseltine, drove out after luncheon from the
viceregal lodge. I wanted that badly. Rarely. Tap. He took his ordinary at a boilingcook’s and if he had but
gotten into him a mess of broken victuals or a platter of tripes with a
bare tester in his purse he could always bring himself off with his
tongue, some randy quip he had from a punk or whatnot that every
mother’s son of them would burst their sides. Her son was the
substance. And she could see far away the lights of
the lighthouses so picturesque she would have loved to do with a box of
paints because it was easier than to make a man and soon the
lamplighter would be going his rounds past the presbyterian church
grounds and along by shady Tritonville avenue where the couples walked
and lighting the lamp near her window where Reggy Wylie used to turn
his freewheel like she read in that book _The Lamplighter_ by Miss
Cummins, author of _Mabel Vaughan_ and other tales. The deafening
claps of thunder and the dazzling flashes of lightning which lit up the
ghastly scene testified that the artillery of heaven had lent its
supernatural pomp to the already gruesome spectacle. —And will again, says Joe. Town traveller. Crushing in the
winepress grapes of Burgundy. )_ So. VOICES: _(Subdued. For that
matter so are we. Something occult:
symbolism. _(The disc rasps gratingly against the needle. What do you mean?

—The imperial British state, Stephen answered, his colour rising, and
the holy Roman catholic and apostolic church. )_
Influence taste too, mauve. Wait. Any general to any officers. How many has she? No other in sight. _

Haines opened his newbought book. Who has passed here before me? How to soften chapped hands. —You did, averred Ben Dollard. Gallop of hoofs. One body. After getting better asleep with Molly. )_ I wouldn’t hurt your feelings for the world
but there’s a man of brawn in possession there. Her large fan winnows wind towards her heated
faceneck and embonpoint. Tossed to fat lips his chalice, drank off his
chalice tiny, sucking the last fat violet syrupy drops. Both babe and
parent now glorify their Maker, the one in limbo gloom, the other in
purgefire. The young are old. Stephen anyhow lent him
one of them. Light is a kind of reassuring. Just a little heart to heart
talk, sweety. Nor should we forget Mr Frank Harris. —What’s that bloody freemason doing, says the citizen, prowling up and
down outside?

—What’s that? says Joe. )_

BLOOM: _(Wincing. Mr Staylewit (Buncombe. A murmur of approval arose from all and some were
for ejecting the low soaker without more ado, a design which would have
been effected nor would he have received more than his bare deserts had
he not abridged his transgression by affirming with a horrid
imprecation (for he swore a round hand) that he was as good a son of
the true fold as ever drew breath. gutenberg. —Come in, come on, he won’t eat you, says the citizen. In vain he trotted,
signalling in vain among the rout of barekneed gillies smuggling
implements of music through Trinity gates. The viceregal cavalcade passed, greeted by obsequious policemen, out of
Parkgate. Curse me for a fool that didn’t
buy that lot Craig and Gardner told me about. Ulster king at arms! Haihoop! _(He makes the beagle’s call,
giving tongue. Denis Carey. —Memorable bloody bridge battle and seven minutes’ war, Stephen
assented, between Skinner’s alley and Ormond market. Still it’s the
same fish perhaps old Micky Hanlon of Moore street ripped the guts out
of making money hand over fist finger in fishes’ gills can’t write his
name on a cheque think he was painting the landscape with his mouth
twisted. —God, do you remember? Ben bulky Dollard said, turning from the
punished keyboard. —I don’t know if I can. Don’t know
what poetry is even. Fever near her mouth. Poor kids! Only
troubles wildfire and nettlerash. All the year round he prayed the same
thing over them all and shook water on top of them: sleep. Lost it. All these rocks with lines and scars and
letters. —Isn’t he a cousin of Bloom the dentist? says Jack Power. _(Patrice Egan peeps from behind, his rabbitface nibbling a quince
leaf. Ah, see now! Falls back suddenly, frozen in
stereoscope. A long look
from dark eyes, a riddling sentence to be woven and woven on the
church’s looms. Bloom
followed bag. Whereas the
simple fact of the case was it was simply a case of the husband not
being up to the scratch, with nothing in common between them beyond the
name, and then a real man arriving on the scene, strong to the verge of
weakness, falling a victim to her siren charms and forgetting home
ties, the usual sequel, to bask in the loved one’s smiles. The reason he mentioned the fact was that a lot of those
policemen, whom he cordially disliked, were admittedly unscrupulous in
the service of the Crown and, as Mr Bloom put it, recalling a case or
two in the A division in Clanbrassil street, prepared to swear a hole
through a ten gallon pot. L. Putting up in the
Buckingham Palace hotel under their very noses. _O, O_. A solution of the secular
problem of the quadrature of the circle, government premium £ 1,000,000
sterling. Voice. Boys are they? Yes. —To be sure, he said, remembering brightly. By the way, did I tear up
that envelope? Yes: under the bridge. —Is she up the pole?

—Better ask Seymour that. Mistake
must be: someone else. —What’s that? Mr Dedalus said. What’s that? Might be money. College Green. I danced with her, wait, fifteen
seventeen golden years ago, at Mat Dillon’s in Roundtown. For me this. She took back the card, sighing. His Most Catholic
Majesty will now administer open air justice. Goosestep. )_

EDWARD THE SEVENTH: _(Slowly, solemnly but indistinctly. John Howard Parnell example the provost of Trinity every
mother’s son don’t talk of your provosts and provost of Trinity women
and children cabmen priests parsons fieldmarshals archbishops. —Ah, listen to this for God’ sake, Ned Lambert pleaded. So then after that they drifted on to the wreck off Daunt’s rock, wreck
of that illfated Norwegian barque nobody could think of her name for
the moment till the jarvey who had really quite a look of Henry
Campbell remembered it _Palme_ on Booterstown strand. Needles in window curtains. E. Clogs the
pores or the phlegm. While you wait if you wait he will wait while you
wait. Léo Taxil. —He is sitting with a sweet thing, Myles Crawford said, in a child’s
frock. Lane. And she tickled tiny tot’s two cheeks to make him forget and played
here’s the lord mayor, here’s his two horses, here’s his gingerbread
carriage and here he walks in, chinchopper, chinchopper, chinchopper
chin. —Daughter of the regiment. Like Molly. But hey, presto, the mirror is
breathed on and the young knighterrant recedes, shrivels, dwindles to a
tiny speck within the mist. Stand by. She sits. In Youkstetter’s, the porkbutcher’s, Father Conmee
observed pig’s puddings, white and black and red, lie neatly curled in
tubes. The second in the coffeeroom of Breslin’s hotel on
a rainy Sunday in the January of 1892, in the company of Stephen’s
father and Stephen’s granduncle, Stephen being then 5 years older. My cousin, Blackwood Price, writes to me it is
regularly treated and cured in Austria by cattledoctors there. What is that flying about? Swallow? Bat probably. I’ll just take a thimbleful of your
best gin, Mr Crimmins. _En route_ to his taciturn and, not to put too fine a point on it, not
yet perfectly sober companion Mr Bloom who at all events was in
complete possession of his faculties, never more so, in fact
disgustingly sober, spoke a word of caution _re_ the dangers of
nighttown, women of ill fame and swell mobsmen, which, barely
permissible once in a while though not as a habitual practice, was of
the nature of a regular deathtrap for young fellows of his age
particularly if they had acquired drinking habits under the influence
of liquor unless you knew a little jiujitsu for every contingency as
even a fellow on the broad of his back could administer a nasty kick if
you didn’t look out. The
terrier follows, whining piteously, wagging his tail. Foot and mouth disease. He pleaded over returning phrases of avowal. The field follows, a bunch of
bucking mounts. He has recently escaped from Dr Eustace’s
private asylum for demented gentlemen. Like to see them sitting round in a ring with blub lips, entranced,
listening. Peachy cheeks, a zebra
skirt, frisky as a young thing’s. Either he petered out too tamely of acute pneumonia just
when his various different political arrangements were nearing
completion or whether it transpired he owed his death to his having
neglected to change his boots and clothes after a wetting when a cold
resulted and failing to consult a specialist he being confined to his
room till he eventually died of it amid widespread regret before a
fortnight was at an end or quite possibly they were distressed to find
the job was taken out of their hands. Dringadring! And in a ladychapel another taking housel all to his own
cheek. )_ Rut. Bullockbefriending. You’re looking splendid. BLOOM: _(Enthusiastically. mind who you’re pinching. That’s me in mourning. Smiling, a jew, he heard with pleasure and saw
the unbroken kitchen window. Mamma! Mamma! Babes in the wood. Aboard of the _Bugabu. Nightdress was never. The mourners included: Patk. Their names are Anne Kearns and Florence MacCabe. Not to speak of hostels, leperyards, sweating chambers, plaguegraves,
their greatest doctors, the O’Shiels, the O’Hickeys, the O’Lees, have
sedulously set down the divers methods by which the sick and the
relapsed found again health whether the malady had been the trembling
withering or loose boyconnell flux. Door of the
stables near Cecilia street. Men trampling down women and children. My dear Kitty told me today that she would dance in a deluge
before ever she would starve in such an ark of salvation for, as she
reminded me (blushing piquantly and whispering in my ear though there
was none to snap her words but giddy butterflies), dame Nature, by the
divine blessing, has implanted it in our hearts and it has become a
household word that _il y a deux choses_ for which the innocence of our
original garb, in other circumstances a breach of the proprieties, is
the fittest, nay, the only garment. Her hoarse loud breath rattling in horror, while all
prayed on their knees. With faraway mourning mountain eye. Have you the? Haw haw horn. _Sinn Fein amhain!_ The friends we love
are by our side and the foes we hate before us. )_ Ow!

_(He looks round, darts forward suddenly. Hon. He loved Ireland, he said, and he loved the Irish. Two crossed keys here. Bound for their troughs. I
was only wondering was it late. —What are you singing?

—_Là ci darem_ with J. —Look at that now, she said. If I had passed
Truelock’s window that day two minutes later would have been shot. m. Picking holes in
each other’s appearance. Li Chi Han lovey up kissy Cha Pu Chow. )_ I confess I’m teapot with
curiosity to find out whether some person’s something is a little
teapot at present. —I am sure he has an _idée fixe,_ Haines said, pinching his chin
thoughtfully with thumb and forefinger. Sister souls. Lenehan linked his arm warmly. Such as never?

What is home without Plumtree’s Potted Meat?

Incomplete. )_ He doesn’t know what he’s saying. For a plump of pressmen. —Them are two good ones, he said. MRS BREEN: Glory Alice, you do look a holy show! Killing simply. —Irishtown, Martin Cunningham said. BLOOM: I was just going back for that lotion whitewax, orangeflower
water. They thereupon stopped. —You know Simon Dedalus? he asked at length. Beneath this he wore trews of
deerskin, roughly stitched with gut. Art thou there, truepenny?

—Interesting only to the parish clerk. THE NAVVY: _(Shouts. Each
dish harmless might mix inside. Families of them. As if I was her clotheshorse. Their natural craving. Now am I going to tram it out all the way and then catch
him out perhaps. Tap. Still two types there are you bob against. The truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth, so help you Jimmy Johnson. I was in Europe with Kevin
Egan of Paris. How saith Zarathustra? _Deine Kuh
Trübsal melkest Du. The best plan clearly being to clear out, the remainder being plain
sailing, he beckoned, while prudently pocketing the photo, to the
keeper of the shanty who didn’t seem to. You are mine. Neat way she carries
parcels too. Absolutely it. Blazes doing the
tootle on the flute. A many comely
nymphs drew nigh to starboard and to larboard and, clinging to the
sides of the noble bark, they linked their shining forms as doth the
cunning wheelwright when he fashions about the heart of his wheel the
equidistant rays whereof each one is sister to another and he binds
them all with an outer ring and giveth speed to the feet of men whenas
they ride to a hosting or contend for the smile of ladies fair. Fire lit. )_ I promise never to disobey. Wildly I lay on her,
kissed her: eyes, her lips, her stretched neck beating, woman’s breasts
full in her blouse of nun’s veiling, fat nipples upright. Jealousy?

Because a nature full and volatile in its free state, was alternately
the agent and reagent of attraction. Then all settled down on their knees again
and he sat back quietly in his bench. Johnny Magories. Who is this was telling me? Isn’t Blazes Boylan
mixed up in it?

A warm shock of air heat of mustard hanched on Mr Bloom’s heart. Philip Beaufoy I was thinking. He turned towards Myles Crawford and said:

—You know Gerald Fitzgibbon. Nothing doing, I expect. Atrot, in heat, heatseated. The gas we had on the Toft’s hobbyhorses. And his old fellow before
him perpetrating frauds, old Methusalem Bloom, the robbing bagman, that
poisoned himself with the prussic acid after he swamping the country
with his baubles and his penny diamonds. Begin!



Bronze by gold, miss Douce’s head by miss Kennedy’s head, over the
crossblind of the Ormond bar heard the viceregal hoofs go by, ringing
steel. Come to the wrong shop. —And is he doing for the _Freeman?_ Davy Byrne said. )_

BLOOM: A man’s touch. —Mr Garrett Deasy, Stephen said. And I seen maneaters in Peru that eats corpses and
the livers of horses. Gnashing her teeth in sleep. Bosom I saw, both full, throat
warbling. He felt here and there. He laughed to free his mind from his mind’s bondage. How Walter Bapty lost his voice. I feel I want. Not going to be any music. A pointsman’s back straightened itself upright suddenly against a
tramway standard by Mr Bloom’s window. The Gordon Bennett. Ha. Mr Bloom walked towards Dawson street, his tongue brushing his teeth
smooth. No. A most interesting discussion took place in the ancient hall of _Brian
O’Ciarnain’s_ in _Sraid na Bretaine Bheag_, under the auspices of
_Sluagh na h-Eireann_, on the revival of ancient Gaelic sports and the
importance of physical culture, as understood in ancient Greece and
ancient Rome and ancient Ireland, for the development of the race. LYNCH: Pornosophical philotheology. Ga ga ga ga Gara. Mr Bloom stooped and turned over a piece of paper on the strand. Muffled up. Then did you, chivalrous Terence, hand forth, as to the manner born,
that nectarous beverage and you offered the crystal cup to him that
thirsted, the soul of chivalry, in beauty akin to the immortals. Warm beds:
warm fullblooded life. He leaned back and went on again, having
just remembered. )_ Yes. Wait. Breathe it deep into thee. )_ Fine! Splendid! _(He refuses to
accept three shillings offered him by Joseph Hynes, journalist. Green starving faces eating
dockleaves. —Wait, said Cissy, I’ll run ask my uncle Peter over there what’s the
time by his conundrum. Lot of ground he must cover in the day. Walking about with his book and pencil here’s my head
and my heels are coming till Joe Cuffe gave him the order of the boot
for giving lip to a grazier. Took off her hat to show her hair. RICHIE: Goodgod. —Where are we?

Mr Bloom put his head out of the window. But her lover
consoled her and brought her a bright casket of gold in which lay some
oval sugarplums which she partook. Drunk about
the place and capering with Martin’s umbrella. —Longworth and M’Curdy Atkinson were there. A. I am not a strong swimmer. —M’Guinness’s. His spellbound
eyes went after, after her gliding head as it went down the bar by
mirrors, gilded arch for ginger ale, hock and claret glasses
shimmering, a spiky shell, where it concerted, mirrored, bronze with
sunnier bronze. In vain the voice of Mr Canvasser Bloom was heard endeavouring
to urge, to mollify, to refrain. P. Duel by
combat, no. I never borrowed a shilling in my life. Wonder
why they come out at night like mice. Live by their wits. On the boil sure enough: a plume of steam from the spout. A stout lady stopped, took a copper coin from her purse and dropped it
into the cap held out to her. Must require some
practice that. Grain supplies through the narrow waters of the
channel. No. Instead of talking about nothing. —What a time you were! she said. That is his tragedy. Long
in the tooth and superfluous hair. What have you against me now?

They halted, looking towards the blunt cape of Bray Head that lay on
the water like the snout of a sleeping whale. —Yes, says Alf. What? Do you see
any green in the white of my eye? Course it was a bloody barney. WE SEE THE CANVASSER AT WORK


Mr Bloom laid his cutting on Mr Nannetti’s desk. (Brian Cooper Tweedy). Something to hand on. Sure to know someone on the gate. —He’s dead nuts on sales, M’Coy said. Fraidrine. He stretched more, more. _ Marriage ads they never try to beautify. BLOOM: _(Coldly. A student. Followed by the whining dog he walks on
towards hellsgates. He has revealed it
in the sonnets where there is Will in overplus. They exchange in amity the pass of
knights of the red cross and fight duels with cavalry sabres: Wolfe
Tone against Henry Grattan, Smith O’Brien against Daniel O’Connell,
Michael Davitt against Isaac Butt, Justin M’Carthy against Parnell,
Arthur Griffith against John Redmond, John O’Leary against Lear
O’Johnny, Lord Edward Fitzgerald against Lord Gerald Fitzedward, The
O’Donoghue of the Glens against The Glens of The O’Donoghue. _

So of course the citizen was only waiting for the wink of the word and
he starts gassing out of him about the invincibles and the old guard
and the men of sixtyseven and who fears to speak of ninetyeight and Joe
with him about all the fellows that were hanged, drawn and transported
for the cause by drumhead courtmartial and a new Ireland and new this,
that and the other. —I’m sitting anyhow, Nosey Flynn answered. —There was every indication they would arrive at that, he, Bloom, said. You frittered away
your time, he very sensibly maintained, and health and also character
besides which, the squandermania of the thing, fast women of the
_demimonde_ ran away with a lot of £. Perched on high stools by the bar, hats shoved back, at the tables
calling for more bread no charge, swilling, wolfing gobfuls of sloppy
food, their eyes bulging, wiping wetted moustaches. _ Pom. She put an arm round the little mariner and coaxed winningly:

—What’s your name? Butter and cream?

—Tell us who is your sweetheart, spoke Edy Boardman. Body
getting a bit softy. Deshil Holles Eamus. The young May moon she’s beaming, love. He smiled, glancing askance at her mocking eyes. )_ Who’s to pay
for that? Ten shillings. John Henry is not the worst in the world. Uncle Toby’s page for tiny tots. To conclude, while
from the sister’s words he had reckoned upon a speedy delivery he was,
however, it must be owned, not a little alleviated by the intelligence
that the issue so auspicated after an ordeal of such duress now
testified once more to the mercy as well as to the bounty of the
Supreme Being. With turf from the midland bogs. Keyes: two months if I get Nannetti to. Stands a drink now
and then. Write me a long. He blew through the flue two husky
fifenotes. It would be immortal, I understand, but for
the possibility of its annihilation by its First Cause Who, from all I
can hear, is quite capable of adding that to the number of His other
practical jokes, _corruptio per se_ and _corruptio per accidens_ both
being excluded by court etiquette. He sang that song lovely,
murmured Mina. The next
one. Balldresses, by God, and court dresses. He wouldn’t know what
to do to. He always walks outside the lampposts. —They went forth to battle, Mr O’Madden Burke said greyly, but they
always fell. There might have been lapses of an erring father but he wanted to turn
over a new leaf and now, when at long last in sight of the whipping
post, to lead a homely life in the evening of his days, permeated by
the affectionate surroundings of the heaving bosom of the family. They say they used to give
pauper children soup to change to protestants in the time of the potato
blight. Better a pork kidney at Dlugacz’s. Richie turned. Every knot says a lot. Be on the side of the angels. And Mrs Breen and Mrs Dignam once like that too,
marriageable. The reverend Mr Love. Pepper’s ghost idea. Provided nobody. Fuseblue peer from
barrel rev. Best value in. —Cattle traders, says Joe, about the foot and mouth disease. Passing the ivy church he reflected that the ticket
inspector usually made his visit when one had carelessly thrown away
the ticket. A procession of whitesmocked sandwichmen marched slowly towards him
along the gutter, scarlet sashes across their boards. He crossed Townsend
street, passed the frowning face of Bethel. That
man led me, spoke. What course of action did he outline for himself in such capacity?

A course that lay between undue clemency and excessive rigour: the
dispensation in a heterogeneous society of arbitrary classes,
incessantly rearranged in terms of greater and lesser social
inequality, of unbiassed homogeneous indisputable justice, tempered
with mitigants of the widest possible latitude but exactable to the
uttermost farthing with confiscation of estate, real and personal, to
the crown. )_
Rats! _(He yawns, showing a coalblack throat, and closes his jaws by an
upward push of his parchmentroll. The dead themselves the
men anyhow would like to hear an odd joke or the women to know what’s
in fashion. A VOICE: O rocks. A fountain murmurs among damask roses. )_ Why should I not
speak to him or to any human being who walks upright upon this oblate
orange? _(He points his finger. —In God’s name, John Henry Menton said, what did she marry a coon like
that for? She had plenty of game in her then. No fear: no brains. But there are people like things high. C. (mixed
animal and vegetable diet), to be multiplied by 4,386,035, the total
population of Ireland according to census returns of 1901. Emigration
Swindle. Matcham often thinks of
the masterstroke. Hynes might have paid me that three shillings. )_ Pelvic basin. Yes, exactly. The touch of a
deadhand cures. The grey
alive crushed itself in under the plinth, wriggled itself in under it. Shift stuck between the
cheeks behind. LIFE ON THE RAW


—They buy one and fourpenceworth of brawn and four slices of panloaf at
the north city diningrooms in Marlborough street from Miss Kate
Collins, proprietress. Ben Howth, the rhododendrons. Beingless beings. He has that
cabman’s shelter, they say, down there at Butt bridge. Habemus carneficem. What impeded Bloom from giving Stephen counsels of hygiene and
prophylactic to which should be added suggestions concerning a
preliminary wetting of the head and contraction of the muscles with
rapid splashing of the face and neck and thoracic and epigastric region
in case of sea or river bathing, the parts of the human anatomy most
sensitive to cold being the nape, stomach and thenar or sole of foot?

The incompatibility of aquacity with the erratic originality of genius. _(He lilts, wagging his head. As more than inevitable,
irreparable. The devil wouldn’t stop him. There are more women than men in the
world. )_

BRINI, PAPAL NUNCIO: _(In papal zouave’s uniform, steel cuirasses as
breastplate, armplates, thighplates, legplates, large profane
moustaches and brown paper mitre. THE SINS OF THE PAST: _(In a medley of voices. Penny
quite enough. Work in all you know. E. —What are the wild waves saying? he asked her, smiled. —You? says Joe. Perhaps I am
wrong. Ah! Costive. I’m sick of it. Where the foreleg of King Billy’s
horse pawed the air Mrs Breen plucked her hastening husband back from
under the hoofs of the outriders. Dockrell’s, one and ninepence a dozen. By deaf Pat in the doorway straining ear Bloom passed. He wouldn’t surely?

No, no. Light sob of breath Bloom
sighed on the silent bluehued flowers. What do they say was the cause? Spontaneous combustion. )_ Aum!
Baum! Pyjaum! I am the light of the homestead! I am the dreamery
creamery butter. Kevin Egan rolls gunpowder cigarettes through fingers
smeared with printer’s ink, sipping his green fairy as Patrice his
white. This is the very worst hour of the day. He wagged huge beard, huge face over his blunder huge. The Father and the Son idea. Good
morning, sir. —Bill, sir? she said, halting. O. _(From a corner the morning hours run out, goldhaired, slimsandalled,
in girlish blue, waspwaisted, with innocent hands. What?

In sloping, upright and backhands: Queen’s Hotel, Queen’s Hotel,
Queen’s Hotel. He had no wed. —Day, gentlemen. Seabloom, greaseabloom viewed last words. B. O’Rourke, prince of Breffni. Teach your grandmother how
to milk ducks. Thankful for
small mercies. She used to be a
tasty dresser. BELLO: _(Laughs loudly. —After all, I should think you are able to free yourself. Crème de
la crème_. You would have to travel
many a long mile before you found a head of hair the like of that. BEN DOLLARD: _(Smites his thigh in abundant laughter. Look out. i. His brother used men as pawns. Eyes front. I want to pop into Lynam’s to
see Sceptre’s starting price. One and eightpence too
much. Love or burgundy. But do. Just: quietly: husband. But do not know me. C. —Our mighty mother! Buck Mulligan said. Ben Dollard with a heavy list towards the shopfronts led them forward,
his joyful fingers in the air. It flows purling, widely flowing, floating foampool, flower
unfurling. Very pleased to have met you. She is drowning. Ladies’ grey flannelette bloomers, three shillings a
pair, astonishing bargain. Martin Cunningham drew out his watch briskly, coughed and put it back. Probably not a bit like it really. Messer
Brunetto, I thank thee for the word. S. Such as not?

Look at this long candle. How many broken hearts are buried here,
Simon!

—Her grave is over there, Jack, Mr Dedalus said. Funny I don’t remember that. James of Dingle and
Compostella and S. A jumping rose on satiny breast of satin, rose of Castile. Then he starts scraping a few
bits of old biscuit out of the bottom of a Jacobs’ tin he told Terry to
bring. Lourdes
cure, waters of oblivion, and the Knock apparition, statues bleeding. unless a copyright notice is included. John Mulligan, the manager of the Hibernian
bank, gave me a very sharp eye yesterday on Carlisle bridge as if he
remembered me. Quietude of
custody, rather, befitting their station in that house, the vigilant
watch of shepherds and of angels about a crib in Bethlehem of Juda long
ago. Jingling, hoofthuds. Our own fault. Along an infinite invisible tightrope taut from zenith to nadir the End
of the World, a twoheaded octopus in gillie’s kilts, busby and tartan
filibegs, whirls through the murk, head over heels, in the form of the
Three Legs of Man. )_ What ails it tonight?

LYNCH: _(Deeply. Mnemo?

VIRAG: _(Excitedly. And she with her nose cockahoop after she
married him because a cousin of his old fellow’s was pewopener to the
pope. Yes, I am here now. —You will say those names were already in the chronicles from which he
took the stuff of his plays. )_ Continue. Why? Reaction. Rain, exposure at dewfall on the searocks, a peccadillo at my
time of life. —There’s your snotrag, he said. He is robed
as a grand elect perfect and sublime mason with trowel and apron,
marked_ made in Germany. In fact when one comes to look into it the wonder
is that so many pregnancies and deliveries go off so well as they do,
all things considered and in spite of our human shortcomings which
often baulk nature in her intentions. —I’m sure you have another shilling, Dilly said. Your own? He knows your old fellow. Ate. —I’m going to show you a little trick, Mr Dedalus said. On that mystery and not on the madonna which
the cunning Italian intellect flung to the mob of Europe the church is
founded and founded irremovably because founded, like the world, macro
and microcosm, upon the void. She dances, capers, wagging her sowish haunches and her
hips, on her gross belly flapping a ruby egg. e. Come over
in the sun. )_ High School of Poula? Mnemo? Not in full possession
of faculties. We are stonecold and pure. )_

CORNY KELLEHER: Leave it to me, sergeant. Woman squeals, bites, spucks. —We know him, says the citizen. —A father, Stephen said, battling against hopelessness, is a necessary
evil. Marry in May and repent
in December. Infatuated. Elizabethan London lay as far from Stratford as corrupt Paris
lies from virgin Dublin. That’s her perfume. )_ You beast!
You abominable person!

NOSEY FLYNN: Give us a tune, Bloom. The shopman’s uncombed grey head came out and his unshaven
reddened face, coughing. Instruments. Queen’s Ho. With hoarse rude fury the yeoman cursed, swelling in apoplectic bitch’s
bastard. Hot I tongued
her. ?

—Dead! says Alf. Lynch indicates mockingly the couple at the piano. —Antiquity mentions famous beds, Second Eglinton puckered, bedsmiling. There was that in her young
voice that told that she was not a one to be lightly trifled with. Another slice of bread and butter: three, four: right. And they laughed, sporting in a circle of their foam: and the bark
clave the waves. Nice smell these
soaps have. Decoy. BLOOM: Is this Mrs Mack’s?

ZOE: No, eightyone. Warm shoe. )_ Coo coocoo! Yummyyum, Womwom! _(Warbling. Might take a trip down there. Lots of
them lying around here: lungs, hearts, livers. Come. D. Taken a few years since. Touch me not. C. Live on fish, fishy flesh they
have, all seabirds, gulls, seagoose. Day. What has she in the bag? A misbirth with a
trailing navelcord, hushed in ruddy wool. Decent fellow, John O’Connell, real good sort. The
soldier got to business, leading off with a powerful left jab to which
the Irish gladiator retaliated by shooting out a stiff one flush to the
point of Bennett’s jaw. —Will you write the address, sir?

Blazes Boylan at the counter wrote and pushed the docket to her. Same thing watered down. Say he got ten per cent off. Pity they can’t see themselves. Address: Barclay and Cook, 18 Talbot street. Flies come before he’s well dead. With hungered flesh obscurely, he
mutely craved to adore. —Breen, says Alf. Tear it limb from limb. Money. Doesn’t bring in any business either. Between this point and the high at present
unlit warehouses of Beresford place Stephen thought to think of Ibsen,
associated with Baird’s the stonecutter’s in his mind somehow in Talbot
place, first turning on the right, while the other who was acting as
his _fidus Achates_ inhaled with internal satisfaction the smell of
James Rourke’s city bakery, situated quite close to where they were,
the very palatable odour indeed of our daily bread, of all commodities
of the public the primary and most indispensable. )_ His noncorrosive sublimate! The corpsechewer! Raw
head and bloody bones. )_

SIGNOR MAFFEI: _(With a sinister smile. See,
thy fleece is drenched. By rose, by satiny bosom, by the fondling hand, by slops, by empties,
by popped corks, greeting in going, past eyes and maidenhair, bronze
and faint gold in deepseashadow, went Bloom, soft Bloom, I feel so
lonely Bloom. Heard he then in that clap the voice of the
god Bringforth or, what Calmer said, a hubbub of Phenomenon? Heard?
Why, he could not but hear unless he had plugged him up the tube
Understanding (which he had not done). I’m the Tartar to settle your little lot and break you in!
I’ll bet Kentucky cocktails all round I shame it out of you, old son. _Enfin ce sont vos oignons. Both preferred a continental to an insular manner
of life, a cisatlantic to a transatlantic place of residence. Every year you get a sending of the crop. Declare misery. )_

BLOOM: No thoroughfare. Cissy said thanks and came back with her tongue out and said uncle said
his waterworks were out of order. —He’s a hero, he said simply. His head halted again for a moment at the top of the staircase, level
with the roof:

—Don’t mope over it all day, he said. All skedaddled. —Come along, the professor cried, waving his arm. Aha! Just I was looking. Hyacinth? Hm. Watering cart. The priest came down from the
altar, holding the thing out from him, and he and the massboy answered
each other in Latin. —Pity about her, says the citizen. Broo! The wind! Her brandnew arrival is on
her knee, _post mortem_ child. Byproducts of the slaughterhouses for tanneries,
soap, margarine. Excuse me. Still, I feel. He walked southward along Westland row. Sandy shrivelled smell he
seems to have. )_

J. And the very first ball little Harry Hughes played
     He drove it o’er the jew’s garden wall. The oval equine
faces, Temple, Buck Mulligan, Foxy Campbell, Lanternjaws. He
resumed:

—And, after blinking up at the sacred figure, _Not a bloody bit like
the man_, says he. In Clohissey’s window a faded 1860 print of Heenan
boxing Sayers held his eye. Snotgreen, bluesilver,
rust: coloured signs. Cocks his gun over his shoulder. The
necessity to counteract by impermanent sojourn the permanence of
arrest. And look at
this blasted rag, says he. )_ Don’t tear my. Aloysius Gonzaga), sunrise 3. With my tooraloom tooraloom tooraloom tooraloom. M. Race there, race back to Ennis. Slop about in slipperslappers for fear he’d
wake. Milly no taste. They followed round the corner towards James Kavanagh’s winerooms. Beard and
bicycle. When will we meet? My head it simply. ) Gaudium magnum annuntio vobis. In gay
Paree he hides, Egan of Paris, unsought by any save by me. It leads him to a strange
habitation, to a secret infidel apartment, and there, implacable,
immolates him, consenting. Rest suddenly possessed the discreet vaulted cell, rest of warm and
brooding air. His right hand
came down into the bowl of his hat. Rrrrrr. )_ Two commercials that were
standing fizz in Jammet’s. Easily twig a man used to uniform. Inishturk. Tup. Joybells ring in
Christ church, Saint Patrick’s, George’s and gay Malahide. Good man, Simon. Dust webbed the window and the
showtrays. What object offered partial consolation for these reminiscences?

The endowment policy, the bank passbook, the certificate of the
possession of scrip. A drowning man. The quaker librarian came from the leavetakers. _En avant, mes enfants!_ Fire
away number one on the gun. A suckingbottle for the baby. Wheels and hoofs. Jewels diamonds
flash better. Nay,
even the stern provostmarshal, lieutenantcolonel Tomkin-Maxwell
ffrenchmullan Tomlinson, who presided on the sad occasion, he who had
blown a considerable number of sepoys from the cannonmouth without
flinching, could not now restrain his natural emotion. Past Richmond bridge at the
doorstep of the office of Reuben J Dodd, solicitor, agent for the
Patriotic Insurance Company, an elderly female about to enter changed
her plan and retracing her steps by King’s windows smiled credulously
on the representative of His Majesty. Cockcarracarra. )_ Come and wipe your name
off the slate. BLOOM: _(With desire, with reluctance. I am trying to work up influence with the
department. The whitemaned seahorses, champing, brightwindbridled, the steeds of
Mananaan. Few years’ time half of them magistrates and
civil servants. BLOOM: I mean, Leopardstown. BELLO: _(Cuttingly. Must get that grey
suit of mine turned by Mesias. But the
Sassenach tried to starve the nation at home while the land was full of
crops that the British hyenas bought and sold in Rio de Janeiro. All fell to praising of it, each after his own
fashion, though the same young blade held with his former view that
another than her conjugial had been the man in the gap, a clerk in
orders, a linkboy (virtuous) or an itinerant vendor of articles needed
in every household. The
cold steel pen. Here’s a good lump of thyme
seasoning under the apron for you. He turned towards Stephen and said:

—Look at the sea. He is a ghost, a shadow now, the wind
by Elsinore’s rocks or what you will, the sea’s voice, a voice heard
only in the heart of him who is the substance of his shadow, the son
consubstantial with the father. Slide. But one evening, says
Mr Dixon, when the lord Harry was cleaning his royal pelt to go to
dinner after winning a boatrace (he had spade oars for himself but the
first rule of the course was that the others were to row with
pitchforks) he discovered in himself a wonderful likeness to a bull and
on picking up a blackthumbed chapbook that he kept in the pantry he
found sure enough that he was a lefthanded descendant of the famous
champion bull of the Romans, _Bos Bovum_, which is good bog Latin for
boss of the show. —And there’s your Latin quarter hat, he said. And to the loud voice that now bids
her be silent with wondering unsteady eyes. On the spindle side. On the steps of the City hall Councillor Nannetti, descending, hailed
Alderman Cowley and Councillor Abraham Lyon ascending. J. He bent down to her, his hands on his
knees. Have their own
secrets between them. Like a mortuary chapel. Look at the holy show I am. Did their conversation on the subject of these reminiscences reveal a
third connecting link between them?

Mrs Riordan (Dante), a widow of independent means, had resided in the
house of Stephen’s parents from 1 September 1888 to 29 December 1891
and had also resided during the years 1892, 1893 and 1894 in the City
Arms Hotel owned by Elizabeth O’Dowd of 54 Prussia street where, during
parts of the years 1893 and 1894, she had been a constant informant of
Bloom who resided also in the same hotel, being at that time a clerk in
the employment of Joseph Cuffe of 5 Smithfield for the superintendence
of sales in the adjacent Dublin Cattle market on the North Circular
road. Quakerlyster plasters blisters. In the still faint light he moved about, tapping with his lath the
piled seedbags and points of vantage on the floor. Here take your crutch and walk. )_ Icky licky micky sticky
for Leo! _(Cooing. A pleasant smile broke quietly over his lips. The dog’s bark ran towards him, stopped, ran back. —Here, Mr Dedalus said, handing her two pennies. What he wanted to ascertain was why that ship ran bang against the only
rock in Galway bay when the Galway harbour scheme was mooted by a Mr
Worthington or some name like that, eh? Ask the then captain, he
advised them, how much palmoil the British government gave him for that
day’s work, Captain John Lever of the Lever Line. For entire
colts and fillies. The full moon was the night we were Sunday fortnight exactly
there is a new moon. Skin-the-Goat, assuming he was he, evidently with an axe to
grind, was airing his grievances in a forcible-feeble philippic anent
the natural resources of Ireland or something of that sort which he
described in his lengthy dissertation as the richest country bar none
on the face of God’s earth, far and away superior to England, with coal
in large quantities, six million pounds worth of pork exported every
year, ten millions between butter and eggs and all the riches drained
out of it by England levying taxes on the poor people that paid through
the nose always and gobbling up the best meat in the market and a lot
more surplus steam in the same vein. Try. has been telling some yankee
interviewer that you came to him in the small hours of the morning to
ask him about planes of consciousness. STEPHEN: _(Swaying. _(She prays. Then the next one: a small old woman. Hooked that
nicely. The caretaker blinked up at one of the sepulchres they passed. And the Trinity jibs in their mortarboards. From the saloon a call came, long in dying. Twenty past eleven. Fachtna and S. THE FIRE BRIGADE: Pflaap!

BROTHER BUZZ: _(Invests Bloom in a yellow habit with embroidery of
painted flames and high pointed hat. Must see him for that par. There’s no-one in it only her old father that’s dead drunk. Straw hat in sunlight. If
Wilde were only alive to see you!

Drawing back and pointing, Stephen said with bitterness:

—It is a symbol of Irish art. The man then right earnest asked the nun of which death
the dead man was died and the nun answered him and said that he was
died in Mona Island through bellycrab three year agone come Childermas
and she prayed to God the Allruthful to have his dear soul in his
undeathliness. )_ Rahab. What concomitant phenomenon took place in the vessel of liquid by the
agency of fire?

The phenomenon of ebullition. Buck Mulligan gaily, and
Haines gravely, gazed down on the viceregal equipage over the shoulders
of eager guests, whose mass of forms darkened the chessboard whereon
John Howard Parnell looked intently. The bitterness
might be from the father but the passages with Ophelia are surely from
the son. This cemetery is a treacherous place. Tell him a tale of woe about arrears
of rent and a sick wife and a squad of kids and, faith, he’ll dissolve
in tears on the bench. P. He admires him all the more. Press his lower eyelid. A catalectic tetrameter of iambs
marching. I could have
said. Easy now. And they eating crumbs of the cottage fruitcake, jawing the whole
blooming time and sighing. Short little finger. One of the bottlenosed fraternity it was went by the name of James
Wought alias Saphiro alias Spark and Spiro, put an ad in the papers
saying he’d give a passage to Canada for twenty bob. In a breath ’twas
done but—hold! Back! It must not be! In terror the poor girl flees away
through the murk. —I wonder how is our friend Fogarty getting on, Mr Power said. Calomel purge I got her for that. The porkbutcher snapped two sheets from the pile, wrapped up her prime
sausages and made a red grimace. Jesus, I couldn’t get over
that bloody foxy Geraghty, the daylight robber. )_ The squeak is out. Clifton Bingham, composed by J. _Madame_: smiling. BLOOM: _(Quietly lays a half sovereign on the table between Bella and
Florry. Damn her. What do they be thinking about?
Women too. He laughed richly. What reflections occupied his mind during the process of reversion of
the inverted volumes?

The necessity of order, a place for everything and everything in its
place: the deficient appreciation of literature possessed by females:
the incongruity of an apple incuneated in a tumbler and of an umbrella
inclined in a closestool: the insecurity of hiding any secret document
behind, beneath or between the pages of a book. Red Murray’s long shears sliced out the advertisement from the
newspaper in four clean strokes. And Cissy and Edy shouted after them to come back because they
were afraid the tide might come in on them and be drowned. And they like dressing
one another for the sacrifice. Sing out!

—’lldo! cried Father Cowley. Hair braided over: shell
with seaweed. —Anything for a quiet life, laughed Ciss. Amen. A bolt drawn back and Walter welcomes me. Better
shift it out of that. Senan and S. Once spurned twice
spurned. And Father Conmee smiled and
saluted. )_ Steak and
kidney. He’s looking. )_

BLOOM: What is that? A flasher? Searchlight. Professor MacHugh strode across the room and seized the cringing urchin
by the collar as the others scampered out of the hall and down the
steps. Give me in charge. —_To me!_

Siopold!

Consumed. Stephen Dedalus, behind him, uncovered as he entered. To her nothing already then and thenceforward was anyway able to be
molestful for this chiefly felt all citizens except with proliferent
mothers prosperity at all not to can be and as they had received
eternity gods mortals generation to befit them her beholding, when the
case was so hoving itself, parturient in vehicle thereward carrying
desire immense among all one another was impelling on of her to be
received into that domicile. Hm. Elixir of life. —_Bless me, father,_ Dollard the croppy cried. He put the other coins in his pocket and started to walk on. His private papers in the original. Books you were going to write with letters for
titles. But he had been kind. I’m just
waiting for Ben Dollard. Do you know that the orange lodges agitated for repeal of the
union twenty years before O’Connell did or before the prelates of your
communion denounced him as a demagogue? You fenians forget some things. Come, Bob. Before him Father Conroy and the reverend
John Hughes S. —We know those canters, says he, preaching and picking your pocket. He
ascends and stands on the stone of destiny. Got a dinge in the side of his hat. Pullman car and saloon
diningroom. I’m the bloody well gigant rolls all them bloody well
boulders, bones for my steppingstones. The impact. Valise tack again. )_ He couldn’t get a
connection. Swish and soft flop her stays made on the bed. Unmarried. Bore this. —How do you do? the editor said, holding out a hand. And the mulled rum. She shouted in his ear the tidings. Yes, bread of angels it’s called. The morn. —This way, he said, walking to the right. )_ Eh! He’s covered with
shavings anyhow. From his girdle hung a row of seastones which jangled
at every movement of his portentous frame and on these were graven with
rude yet striking art the tribal images of many Irish heroes and
heroines of antiquity, Cuchulin, Conn of hundred battles, Niall of nine
hostages, Brian of Kincora, the ardri Malachi, Art MacMurragh, Shane
O’Neill, Father John Murphy, Owen Roe, Patrick Sarsfield, Red Hugh
O’Donnell, Red Jim MacDermott, Soggarth Eoghan O’Growney, Michael
Dwyer, Francy Higgins, Henry Joy M’Cracken, Goliath, Horace Wheatley,
Thomas Conneff, Peg Woffington, the Village Blacksmith, Captain
Moonlight, Captain Boycott, Dante Alighieri, Christopher Columbus, S. O’Molloy asked, looking towards the
inner door. If any, positively, connivance,
introduction of emulation (material, a prosperous rival agency of
publicity: moral, a successful rival agent of intimacy), depreciation,
alienation, humiliation, separation protecting the one separated from
the other, protecting the separator from both. Twilight. No. —I was just going to throw it away, Mr Bloom said. _(He murmurs privately and confidentially. In my opinion
every lady for example. WHAT?—AND LIKEWISE—WHERE?


—But what do you call it? Myles Crawford asked. G. —Do you know that story about chief baron Palles? J. Your head it simply. Nannetti’s gone. Victory. The boy propped
his wreath against a corner: the brother-in-law his on a lump. Mourning coaches drawn up, drowning their grief. Stephen, his throat itching, answered:

—The fox burying his grandmother under a hollybush. Tom Rochford spilt powder from a twisted paper into the water set
before him. BLOOM: _(Forlornly. Perhaps so as not to hurt. Loved to count my waistcoat buttons. Stephen Dedalus, displeased and sleepy, leaned
his arms on the top of the staircase and looked coldly at the shaking
gurgling face that blessed him, equine in its length, and at the light
untonsured hair, grained and hued like pale oak. *    *    *


The blond girl in Thornton’s bedded the wicker basket with rustling
fibre. Like that. And Willy Murray
with him, the two of them there near whatdoyoucallhim’s. Strictly
confidential. —True for you, Nosey Flynn said. The squallers. —There’s a smell of burn, she said. Bloom with Goulding, married in silence, ate. Also poor papa went away. Round and round a moth flies,
colliding, escaping. Had the winner today till I tipped him a dead cert. In long shaky strokes Sargent copied the data. Is she alive?

—And kicking. As you are now so once were we. Yes. —Is that a fact? Mr Dedalus said. _(They pass. J. Mr Wisdom Hely J. —Longworth is awfully sick, he said, after what you wrote about that
old hake Gregory. Ungenitive. Gave Reuben J a great strawcalling. P. He felt the flowing qualm spread over him. Sounds solid: made by the mallet of _Los
Demiurgos_. Twenty
years he lived in London and, during part of that time, he drew a
salary equal to that of the lord chancellor of Ireland. ZOE: It was a commercial traveller married her and took her away with
him. Too dear too
near to home sweet home. She didn’t like it because I sprained my
ankle first day she wore choir picnic at the Sugarloaf. So long as they do no worse. Quiet long days: pruning, ripening. Buck Mulligan sat down in a sudden pet. Did Bloom accept the invitation to dinner given then by the son and
afterwards seconded by the father?

Very gratefully, with grateful appreciation, with sincere appreciative
gratitude, in appreciatively grateful sincerity of regret, he declined. on saint Peter Claver S. Mr Dedalus wandered back, pipe in hand. Don’t cast your nasturtiums on my character. R. He scrambled up by the stones,
water glistening on his pate and on its garland of grey hair, water
rilling over his chest and paunch and spilling jets out of his black
sagging loincloth. I might have tried to work
M’Coy for a pass to Mullingar. You once nobble that, congregation, and a buck joyride to
heaven becomes a back number. And time, well that’s the time the movement takes. )_ Repent! O, the fire of hell!

STEPHEN: _(Panting. Henry gallant turns with pendant dewlap to the
piano. Old Kilkenny: saint Canice, Strongbow’s castle on the Nore. And yet it was in some way if not as
memory fabled it. That awful
cramp in Lad lane. From the top spur he slides down. Wash and shampoo. Economics. And the skulls we were acracking when M’Carthy took the
floor. She swallowed a draught of tea from her cup held by nothandle and,
having wiped her fingertips smartly on the blanket, began to search the
text with the hairpin till she reached the word. _The Child’s Guide_ (blue cloth). Father
Conmee raised his hat to the Blessed Sacrament. That wrong?

_(Black Liz, a huge rooster hatching in a chalked circle, rises,
stretches her wings and clucks. J. So and So, wheelwright. Tap. Stephen threw two pennies on the soft heap. As a
physiologist he believed in the artificial placation of malignant
agencies chiefly operative during somnolence. Wonder he had the
gumption to propose to any girl. )_ Omelette. Whereas. All changed. Beggar’s
bush. I can
see them. Curiosity like
a nun or a negress or a girl with glasses. Just down there in Conway’s we were. A young white heifer. Then outspake medical Dick to his comrade medical
Davy. He faced about
and blessed gravely thrice the tower, the surrounding land and the
awaking mountains. )_

THE SIGHTSEERS: _(Dying. Puking
overboard to feed the herrings. They are immediately appointed to positions of
high public trust in several different countries as managing directors
of banks, traffic managers of railways, chairmen of limited liability
companies, vicechairmen of hotel syndicates. Hhhn:
burst sideways. Sonnez la. Stephen and Florry
turn cumbrously. Exquisite contrast: bronzelid, minagold. Bloom ate liv as said before. Should have put on coldcream
first make it brown. He bared slightly his left forearm. —Well, says John Wyse. Near now. —Thanks, Corley answered, you’re a gentleman. Still she was game. Women will pay a lot of heed, I don’t think. )_ Shitbroleeth. There’s as good fish
in this tin as ever came out of it and very friendly he offered to take
of some salty sprats that stood by which he had eyed wishly in the
meantime and found the place which was indeed the chief design of his
embassy as he was sharpset. C is where murder took place. Plain soda would do him
good. Pass a common remark. —What? Mr Dedalus asked. Runaway
horse. Unwed, unfancied, ware of wiles, they fingerponder nightly each his
variorum edition of _The Taming of the Shrew. Enter that
antechamber of birth where the studious are assembled and note their
faces. What is that word known to all men? I am quiet here alone. —Yes, she said. Yes,
beyond a shadow of a doubt he could with all the cards in his hand and
he had a capital opening to make a name for himself and win a high
place in the city’s esteem where he could command a stiff figure and,
booking ahead, give a grand concert for the patrons of the King street
house, given a backerup, if one were forthcoming to kick him upstairs,
so to speak, a big _if_, however, with some impetus of the goahead sort
to obviate the inevitable procrastination which often tripped up a too
much fêted prince of good fellows. Anyhow upon weighing up the pros and cons, getting on for one, as it
was, it was high time to be retiring for the night. And _The last rose of summer_ was a lovely
song. Feel as if I had been eaten and spewed. Wavewhite wedded words
shimmering on the dim tide. ) wishes to hear of post in fruit or pork
shop. Wore the breeches. With a high ro! and a randy ro! and my
galloping tearing tandy, O! Bow to the inevitable. Look at
Bantam’s flowers. Police whistle in my ears still. ZOE: _(Holds up her hand. World
without end. Love or
money. Even the bones and cornerman at
the Livermore christies. He took out of his mouth the pulpy quid and, lodging it between his
teeth, bit ferociously:

—Khaan! Like that. It was the only language Mr Dedalus said to Ben. —He took umbrage at something or other, that muchinjured but on the
whole eventempered person declared, I let slip. P. The colleen bawn. Nor Ben nor Bob nor Tom nor Si nor George nor tanks nor
Richie nor Pat. J. The catastrophe was terrific and instantaneous in its effect. Accept my little pres. In fact, he
had the ball at his feet and that was the very reason why the other,
possessed of a remarkably sharp nose for smelling a rat of any sort,
hung on to him at all. J. Reuben of that ilk. Bloom. Had to look the other way. For Tommy and Jacky Caffrey were twins, scarce four years old and very
noisy and spoiled twins sometimes but for all that darling little
fellows with bright merry faces and endearing ways about them. Last word in art
shades. Through the drifting fog without the gramophone blares
over coughs and feetshuffling. I. Still
the name: Martha. Not going to hurt
you. He let out that Myler was on the beer to run up
the odds and he swatting all the time. I’m a long time threatening to buy one. Curly cabbage _à la duchesse de
Parme_. They watched the knees, legs, boots vanish. I shall be most pleased. Lord lieutenant. He is going to write
something in ten years. Molly, that
hurdygurdy boy. One of all, the least of all, is the victim predestined. —Hello, Bloom. —Whose admirers? says Joe. If he comes just say I’ll be back in a second. Patrons of your establishment. Member for
College green. Fred Ryan, two shillings. On the
other hand it was altogether far and away too late for the Sandymount
or Sandycove suggestion so that he was in some perplexity as to which
of the two alternatives. ZOE:

     Give a thing and take it back
     God’ll ask you where is that
     You’ll say you don’t know
     God’ll send you down below. Their
souls met in a last lingering glance and the eyes that reached her
heart, full of a strange shining, hung enraptured on her sweet
flowerlike face. FIRST WATCH: Proof. Frigidian and S. Death’s number. Longworth will give it a good puff in the _Express. )_ Was he insulting you while me and him was
having a piss?

LORD TENNYSON: _(Gentleman poet in Union Jack blazer and cricket
flannels, bareheaded, flowingbearded. * You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1. Trams: a car of Prescott’s
dyeworks: a widow in her weeds. C. She kissed me. Well, let us hear of it, good my friend, said Mr Dixon. Salvation
army blatant imitation. Buck Mulligan thought, puzzled:

—Shakespeare? he said. He stumbles on the steps, recovers, plunges into
gloom. He led Father Cowley boldly forward, linked to his bulk. Touched his sense moistened remembered. THE BAWD: The red’s as good as the green. What acrostic upon the abbreviation of his first name had he (kinetic
poet) sent to Miss Marion (Molly) Tweedy on the 14 February 1888?

     Poets oft have sung in rhyme
     Of music sweet their praise divine. I am
connected with the British and Irish press. The twilight hours
advance from long landshadows, dispersed, lagging, languideyed, their
cheeks delicate with cipria and false faint bloom. —How is that? Martin Cunningham said. )_

MRS KEOGH: _(Ferociously. Is that then the divine substance wherein Father and Son are
consubstantial? Where is poor dear Arius to try conclusions? Warring
his life long upon the contransmagnificandjewbangtantiality. THE WATCH: _(Saluting together. Might be the fellow balked
me this morning with that horsey woman. )_ My hero god! _(She dies. The work of
salvage, removal of _débris,_ human remains etc has been entrusted to
Messrs Michael Meade and Son, 159 Great Brunswick street, and Messrs T. —So sad to look at his face, miss Douce condoled. Strange name. The trip would benefit health on account of the bracing ozone
and be in every way thoroughly pleasurable, especially for a chap whose
liver was out of order, seeing the different places along the route,
Plymouth, Falmouth, Southampton and so on culminating in an instructive
tour of the sights of the great metropolis, the spectacle of our modern
Babylon where doubtless he would see the greatest improvement, tower,
abbey, wealth of Park lane to renew acquaintance with. )_

A VOICE: Bloom, are you the Messiah ben Joseph or ben David?

BLOOM: _(Darkly. A. —That is oratory, the professor said uncontradicted. But that has been explained, I believe, by jurists. His plump body plunged. d. )_ ’Tis the loud laugh bespeaks
the vacant mind. )_ Naturally. Then that
bawler in Barney Kiernan’s. Beauty: it curves: curves are beauty. Getting on to sundown. Clank it. He boomed that workaday worker tack for all it was
worth. —To the secretary of state for war, Stephen added over his shoulder. What? Lidwell asked. He looked behind through the others. And says Bloom:

—What I meant about tennis, for example, is the agility and training
the eye. The gates of the drive opened wide to give egress to the viceregal
cavalcade. Pity, of course: but somehow you can’t cotton on to
them someway. K. Only
weggebobbles and fruit. Mr Mulligan was civil
enough to express some relish of it all the more as it jumped with a
project of his own for the cure of the very evil that had been touched
on. —Begone! he said. C. Who is the father of
any son that any son should love him or he any son?

What the hell are you driving at?

I know. Used to change three suits in the day. Hot herringpies, green mugs of sack,
honeysauces, sugar of roses, marchpane, gooseberried pigeons,
ringocandies. )_

ZOE: How’s the nuts?

BLOOM: Off side. No: better not: another time. )_ Here. You could grow any
mortal thing in Irish soil, he stated, and there was that colonel
Everard down there in Navan growing tobacco. The exasperating little brats of twins began to quarrel again and Jacky
threw the ball out towards the sea and they both ran after it. Celestials. Shoe trick. )_ Bah! It is because it is. Friction of the
position. —But _Hamlet_ is so personal, isn’t it? Mr Best pleaded. I fought with
the colours for king and country in the absentminded war under general
Gough in the park and was disabled at Spion Kop and Bloemfontein, was
mentioned in dispatches. See paragraph 1. Pom. You call me up by sunphone any old time. THE FAN: _(Tapping. Part shares and part
profits. COUNCILLOR LORCAN SHERLOCK: Carried unanimously. —Bloody wars, says I, I’ll be in for the last gospel. Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. STEPHEN: _(Mincingly. Cold fowl,
cigars, the Tantalus glasses. Erin. Listen. The rarefied air of the academy and the arena produce
the sixshilling novel, the musichall song. Gazing upon those features with a world of tenderness, Ah, Monsieur, he
said, had you but beheld her as I did with these eyes at that affecting
instant with her dainty tucker and her new coquette cap (a gift for her
feastday as she told me prettily) in such an artless disorder, of so
melting a tenderness, ’pon my conscience, even you, Monsieur, had been
impelled by generous nature to deliver yourself wholly into the hands
of such an enemy or to quit the field for ever. No dollop this but thick rich
bonnyclaber. Foodheated faces, sweating helmets, patting their
truncheons. Evening. ) Là ci darem la mano. Lesurques and Dubosc. SECOND WATCH: _(Awed, whispers. These opening bars he sang and translated _extempore_. And a houseful of kids at home. _(An official translation is read by Jimmy Henry, assistant town
clerk. Their conversation accordingly
became general and all agreed that that was a fact. —Is he a jew or a gentile or a holy Roman or a swaddler or what the
hell is he? says Ned. Smell of grilled beefsteaks to the starving. Lubricate. Crowding together they strapped and buckled their satchels, all
gabbling gaily:

—A riddle, sir? Ask me, sir. Nevertheless, without going
into the _minutiae_ of the business, the eloquent fact remained that
the sea was there in all its glory and in the natural course of things
somebody or other had to sail on it and fly in the face of providence
though it merely went to show how people usually contrived to load that
sort of onus on to the other fellow like the hell idea and the lottery
and insurance which were run on identically the same lines so that for
that very reason if no other lifeboat Sunday was a highly laudable
institution to which the public at large, no matter where living inland
or seaside, as the case might be, having it brought home to them like
that should extend its gratitude also to the harbourmasters and
coastguard service who had to man the rigging and push off and out amid
the elements whatever the season when duty called _Ireland expects that
every man_ and so on and sometimes had a terrible time of it in the
wintertime not forgetting the Irish lights, Kish and others, liable to
capsize at any moment, rounding which he once with his daughter had
experienced some remarkably choppy, not to say stormy, weather. Your terrible loss. And they all ran down the strand to see over the houses and the church,
helterskelter, Edy with the pushcar with baby Boardman in it and Cissy
holding Tommy and Jacky by the hand so they wouldn’t fall running. Would you like a bite of something? None of your damned lawdeedaw airs
here. He passed Grogan’s the
Tobacconist against which newsboards leaned and told of a dreadful
catastrophe in New York. From Six
Mile Point, Flathouse, Nine Mile Stone follow the footpeople with
knotty sticks, hayforks, salmongaffs, lassos, flockmasters with
stockwhips, bearbaiters with tomtoms, toreadors with bullswords, grey
negroes waving torches. Mullingar. That widow on Monday was it
outside Cramer’s that looked at me. —Why? Stephen answered himself. J. )_ This is midsummer madness, some ghastly joke
again. And the two shawls killed with the laughing, picking his
pockets, the bloody fool and he spilling the porter all over the bed
and the two shawls screeching laughing at one another. Madden, Lenehan said. Buck Mulligan tossed the fry on to the dish beside
him. —Was he? Nosey Flynn said. Moses Montefiore. Only my new hat and a carriage sponge. Joking apart and,
getting down to bedrock, A. Drawers: little
kick, taking them off. He
turned, bounded back, came nearer, trotted on twinkling shanks. Mr Bloom inserted his nose. Irish volunteers. I’ll ring them up after five. The
agony in the closet. The sphincter loose. It was indeed, first gentleman said, beautiful
weather. )_

MILLY: My! It’s Papli! But, O Papli, how old you’ve grown!

BELLO: Changed, eh? Our whatnot, our writingtable where we never wrote,
aunt Hegarty’s armchair, our classic reprints of old masters. Unfallen Adam rode and not rutted. One of those manholes
like a bloody gaspipe and there was the poor devil stuck down in it,
half choked with sewer gas. They walked on towards the gates. Might
learn to play. )_
Caoutchouc statue woman reversible or lifesize tompeeptom of virgins
nudities very lesbic the kiss five ten times. _

—Bathe his lips, Mr Dedalus said. )_ Ah! Bright’s!
Lights!

BLOOM: _(Points to the navvy. Amen. Laur. He looked still at her, holding back behind his look his discontent. Ay, ay. Dead he wasn’t. —I will, says he, _a chara_, to show there’s no ill feeling. Were those nightclouds there all the time? Looks like a phantom
ship. Shakespeare, Brian
Confucius, Murtagh Gutenberg, Patricio Velasquez, Captain Nemo, Tristan
and Isolde, the first Prince of Wales, Thomas Cook and Son, the Bold
Soldier Boy, Arrah na Pogue, Dick Turpin, Ludwig Beethoven, the Colleen
Bawn, Waddler Healy, Angus the Culdee, Dolly Mount, Sidney Parade, Ben
Howth, Valentine Greatrakes, Adam and Eve, Arthur Wellesley, Boss
Croker, Herodotus, Jack the Giantkiller, Gautama Buddha, Lady Godiva,
The Lily of Killarney, Balor of the Evil Eye, the Queen of Sheba, Acky
Nagle, Joe Nagle, Alessandro Volta, Jeremiah O’Donovan Rossa, Don
Philip O’Sullivan Beare. Number one swung lourdily her midwife’s bag, the other’s
gamp poked in the beach. Daren’t joke about the dead for two years at least. What’s up? Pop in a minute to phone. Weeping willow. A pishogue, if you know what
that is. Bloom and the wife
were there. O, get, rev on a gradient one in nine. Let me. Across the sands of all the world, followed by the sun’s
flaming sword, to the west, trekking to evening lands. He took a page up from the pile of cut sheets: the model farm at
Kinnereth on the lakeshore of Tiberias. Then the insides
decompose quickly. He whistles_ Don Giovanni, a cenar teco. _I paid
my way. —Do you now? Buck Mulligan said in the same tone. (He turns to a figure
in the crowd, appealing. Gob, he’s like Lanty MacHale’s goat that’d go a piece of the
road with every one. Father Conmee blessed him in the sun for his
purse held, he knew, one silver crown. Myles Crawford
began on the _Independent. All in if he spots me. Elijah is com. Scott of Dawson
street. They struggled up and out: and all uncovered. A truce to threnes and trentals and jeremies and all
such congenital defunctive music! Twenty years of it, regret them not. Many have found him a dear man, a dear person. How? By
knocking his sconce against them, sure. Remember me to
Molly, won’t you?

—I will, Mr Bloom said. ) Dona nobis
pacem. Murderers
do. Three days. He never forgets a friend. Do you know what is the pride of the English? Do you
know what is the proudest word you will ever hear from an Englishman’s
mouth?

The seas’ ruler. Love and laud him: me
no more. Two topboots jog dangling on
to Dublin. Yet who
knows after. Why should I bring it down? Or leave it
there all day, forgotten friendship?

He went over to it, held it in his hands awhile, feeling its coolness,
smelling the clammy slaver of the lather in which the brush was stuck. Ben Howth. That monster audience simply
rocked with delight. The love that kills. He lifts a mooncalf nozzle and howls. —Do you want to cross? Mr Bloom asked. After him freshfound the hue and cry zigzag
gallops in hot pursuit of follow my leader: 65 C, 66 C, night watch,
John Henry Menton, Wisdom Hely, V. He knows and will call in His
own good time. _Cloche. Doctor Diet and Doctor Quiet. That
means the transmigration of souls. He places a bag of gunpowder round
his neck and hands him over to the civil power, saying. Lager for diner. In
courtesy. —Yes, sir. Wonderful. Mr Bloom turned away his face. Bent down double with his
shears clipping. The priest prayed:

—Blessed Michael, archangel, defend us in the hour of conflict. Country bumpkin’s
queries. _(Aside. It was like the
paintings that man used to do on the pavement with all the coloured
chalks and such a pity too leaving them there to be all blotted out,
the evening and the clouds coming out and the Bailey light on Howth and
to hear the music like that and the perfume of those incense they
burned in the church like a kind of waft. Mary Anderson is up there now. And she can do the other. Mother Slipperslapper. ): Arising out of the question of my
honourable friend, the member for Shillelagh, may I ask the right
honourable gentleman whether the government has issued orders that
these animals shall be slaughtered though no medical evidence is
forthcoming as to their pathological condition?

Mr Allfours (Tamoshant. Agendath
Netaim. Brown scapulars in tatters, defending her both ways. His beaver is up. I am being made a scapegoat of. Cashel Boyle O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell walked as far as Mr
Lewis Werner’s cheerful windows, then turned and strode back along
Merrion square, his stickumbrelladustcoat dangling. He’s well worth seeing, mind you. —Did you get any money? Dilly asked. t’s are. He doesn’t chat. Longing to get the fright of
their lives. Ah, yes. A tall figure in bearded homespun rose from shadow and unveiled its
cooperative watch. No, no. How serene does she
now arise, a queen among the Pleiades, in the penultimate antelucan
hour, shod in sandals of bright gold, coifed with a veil of what do you
call it gossamer. Potatoes and marge, marge and potatoes. Sweny and Co (Limited), dispensing chemists, when,
when Frederick M. The letter is not mine. How time flies by! Do you remember, harking
back in a retrospective arrangement, Old Christmas night, Georgina
Simpson’s housewarming while they were playing the Irving Bishop game,
finding the pin blindfold and thoughtreading? Subject, what is in this
snuffbox?

MRS BREEN: You were the lion of the night with your seriocomic
recitation and you looked the part. From Roundwood reservoir in county Wicklow of a cubic capacity of
2400 million gallons, percolating through a subterranean aqueduct of
filter mains of single and double pipeage constructed at an initial
plant cost of £ 5 per linear yard by way of the Dargle, Rathdown, Glen
of the Downs and Callowhill to the 26 acre reservoir at Stillorgan, a
distance of 22 statute miles, and thence, through a system of relieving
tanks, by a gradient of 250 feet to the city boundary at Eustace
bridge, upper Leeson street, though from prolonged summer drouth and
daily supply of 12 1/2 million gallons the water had fallen below the
sill of the overflow weir for which reason the borough surveyor and
waterworks engineer, Mr Spencer Harty, C. What supererogatory marks of special hospitality did the host show his
guest?

Relinquishing his symposiarchal right to the moustache cup of imitation
Crown Derby presented to him by his only daughter, Millicent (Milly),
he substituted a cup identical with that of his guest and served
extraordinarily to his guest and, in reduced measure, to himself the
viscous cream ordinarily reserved for the breakfast of his wife Marion
(Molly). Gone off. Ghostly light on the
tortured face. BLOOM: _(Rubs his hands cheerfully. Nice name he has. MRS BELLINGHAM: Me too. Greasy I
knows. Rollicking
Richie once. The fashionable international world attended _en masse_ this afternoon
at the wedding of the chevalier Jean Wyse de Neaulan, grand high chief
ranger of the Irish National Foresters, with Miss Fir Conifer of Pine
Valley. But lady Maxwell had
come. Leopold Bloom (for it is
he) stands silent, with bowed head before those young guileless eyes. Enough bother wading through fortyfour of them. What? Our envelopes. What is he doing in the Ormond? Car waiting. )_ And says the one: I seen you up Faithful
place with your squarepusher, the greaser off the railway, in his
cometobed hat. The quaker librarian, quaking, tiptoed in, quake, his mask, quake, with
haste, quake, quack. He glanced back through what he had read and, while feeling his
water flow quietly, he envied kindly Mr Beaufoy who had written it and
received payment of three pounds, thirteen and six. )_ No wit, no wrinkles. Crates lined up on the quayside
at Jaffa, chap ticking them off in a book, navvies handling them
barefoot in soiled dungarees. He was too young to understand. Are you all in this vibration? I
say you are. After all, hang it, they had their eleven and more
humdrum months of it and merited a radical change of _venue_ after the
grind of city life in the summertime for choice when dame Nature is at
her spectacular best constituting nothing short of a new lease of life. No use thinking of it any more. ): Don’t hesitate to shoot. The injection mark on the thigh I
hope you perceived? Good. taraxel. Code. my dear son. Darkness is
in our souls do you not think? Flutier. He swung himself violently forward past Katey and Boody Dedalus, halted
and growled:

—_home and beauty. An azured harebell like her veins. Putting pieces of
folded brown paper in the letterbox for her. NOTED CHURCHMAN AN OCCASIONAL CONTRIBUTOR


The foreman handed back the galleypage suddenly, saying:

—Wait. I’ll pay you back one
time. )_

BLOOM: I beg. How do you sniff? Hm. —All these questions are purely academic, Russell oracled out of his
shadow. He smiled, pleasing himself. He ate off the crescent of water biscuit he had been nibbling and,
hungered, made ready to nibble the biscuit in his other hand. Not there. —Boyd? Martin Cunningham said shortly. She cuffs
them on, her streamers flaunting aloft. _The Arabian Nights Entertainment_ was my
favourite and _Red as a Rose is She. _(He uncorks himself behind: then, contorting
his features, farts loudly. A creak and a dark whirr in the air high up. )_ Christ, wouldn’t it make a Siamese cat laugh?

BLOOM: _(Her hands and features working. )_ Insects of the day spend their
brief existence in reiterated coition, lured by the smell of the
inferiorly pulchritudinous female possessing extendified pudendal nerve
in dorsal region. I was thinking of your landlord. The moment is now. —Lackaday, good masters, said the host, my poor house has but a bare
larder. Comerford, the versicle: _May this Yuletide bring to thee, Joy and
peace and welcome glee_: a butt of red partly liquefied sealing wax,
obtained from the stores department of Messrs Hely’s, Ltd. _E quando vede l’uomo l’attosca_. Feel! Press! Crished! Sulphur dung of lions!

Young! Young!

An elderly female, no more young, left the building of the courts of
chancery, king’s bench, exchequer and common pleas, having heard in the
lord chancellor’s court the case in lunacy of Potterton, in the
admiralty division the summons, exparte motion, of the owners of the
Lady Cairns versus the owners of the barque Mona, in the court of
appeal reservation of judgment in the case of Harvey versus the Ocean
Accident and Guarantee Corporation. How first he saw that form endearing, how sorrow seemed to part,
how look, form, word charmed him Gould Lidwell, won Pat Bloom’s heart. And they are
the signs of a nation’s decay. I don’t want to
hear any more of the stuff. Gentleman. Taylor. Six and eightpence, please. —But it’s no use, says he. Latin. That voice was a lamentation. All I want is a little time. She did. He turned back quickly, coughing, laughing,
his lifted arms waving to the air. By the hoky fiddle, thanks be to
Jesus those funny little chaps are not unanimous. So it is. And this person loves that other person
because everybody loves somebody but God loves everybody. Where you slep las nigh? Timothy of the battered naggin. )_ I say so. And there sat with him the
high sinhedrim of the twelve tribes of Iar, for every tribe one man, of
the tribe of Patrick and of the tribe of Hugh and of the tribe of Owen
and of the tribe of Conn and of the tribe of Oscar and of the tribe of
Fergus and of the tribe of Finn and of the tribe of Dermot and of the
tribe of Cormac and of the tribe of Kevin and of the tribe of Caolte
and of the tribe of Ossian, there being in all twelve good men and
true. —Goodnight, M’Coy said abruptly. I throw this ended shadow from me, manshape ineluctable, call it
back. —I know, M’Coy broke in. I am among them, among their battling bodies in a
medley, the joust of life. She’d have won the money only for the
other dog. Paternity may be a legal fiction. Fontenoy, eh? And Sarsfield and O’Donnell, duke of Tetuan
in Spain, and Ulysses Browne of Camus that was fieldmarshal to Maria
Teresa. Rare lamps with faint rainbow fans. Bravely he bore his stumpy
body forward on spatted feet, squaring his shoulders. HOW A GREAT DAILY ORGAN IS TURNED OUT


Mr Bloom halted behind the foreman’s spare body, admiring a glossy
crown. Windandwatery though. —Eternal punishment, Haines said, nodding curtly. His soul is far
away. )_ Ahhkkk!

ELIJAH: _(In rolledup shirtsleeves, black in the face, shouts at the
top of his voice, his arms uplifted. —That will do, Mr Deasy said briskly. The lacquey rang his bell. Frantic hearts. Stephen, who confessed to still feeling poorly and
fagged out, paused at the, for a moment, the door. And then a rocket sprang and bang shot
blind blank and O! then the Roman candle burst and it was like a sigh
of O! and everyone cried O! O! in raptures and it gushed out of it a
stream of rain gold hair threads and they shed and ah! they were all
greeny dewy stars falling with golden, O so lovely, O, soft, sweet,
soft!

Then all melted away dewily in the grey air: all was silent. Martha! Come!

Clapclap. Before my patience are exhausted. I wrote to Father
Conmee and laid the whole case before him. —_Weep no more,_ Comyn said. Don’t you forget! Maximilian Karl O’Donnell,
graf von Tirconnell in Ireland. What past consecutive causes, before rising preapprehended, of
accumulated fatigue did Bloom, before rising, silently recapitulate?

The preparation of breakfast (burnt offering): intestinal congestion
and premeditative defecation (holy of holies): the bath (rite of John):
the funeral (rite of Samuel): the advertisement of Alexander Keyes
(Urim and Thummim): the unsubstantial lunch (rite of Melchisedek): the
visit to museum and national library (holy place): the bookhunt along
Bedford row, Merchants’ Arch, Wellington Quay (Simchath Torah): the
music in the Ormond Hotel (Shira Shirim): the altercation with a
truculent troglodyte in Bernard Kiernan’s premises (holocaust): a blank
period of time including a cardrive, a visit to a house of mourning, a
leavetaking (wilderness): the eroticism produced by feminine
exhibitionism (rite of Onan): the prolonged delivery of Mrs Mina
Purefoy (heave offering): the visit to the disorderly house of Mrs
Bella Cohen, 82 Tyrone street, lower, and subsequent brawl and chance
medley in Beaver street (Armageddon): nocturnal perambulation to and
from the cabman’s shelter, Butt Bridge (atonement). On
the South Circular road in the company of Elsa Potter, followed by an
individual of sinister aspect, she went half way down Stamer street and
turned abruptly back (reason of change not stated). To Caesar what is Caesar’s, to God what is God’s. ) remark (or should it be
called an interruption?) that an omnivorous being which can masticate,
deglute, digest and apparently pass through the ordinary channel with
pluterperfect imperturbability such multifarious aliments as cancrenous
females emaciated by parturition, corpulent professional gentlemen, not
to speak of jaundiced politicians and chlorotic nuns, might possibly
find gastric relief in an innocent collation of staggering bob, reveals
as nought else could and in a very unsavoury light the tendency above
alluded to. Lenehan, very sad about a racer he fancied and Stephen D. Sour pipe removed he held a shield of hand beside his lips that cooed a
moonlight nightcall, clear from anear, a call from afar, replying. By virtue of the fifth of George and seventh
of Edward. What is he
playing now? Improvising. THE YEWS: _(Their silverfoil of leaves precipitating, their skinny arms
aging and swaying. Think you’re escaping and run into
yourself. I was afraid you might be up in your
other establishment in Pimlico. He opened it. Even Phyllis could not contain herself. Blank face. Only the two themselves. Their paler smaller negroid hands
jingle the twingtwang wires. Shall I nevermore behold thee_?
Bam! He expires. —_Sinn Fein!_ says the citizen. )_

FLORRY: And me?

LYNCH: Hoopla!

_(He lifts her, carries her and bumps her down on the sofa. How she met her death. Power those judges have. Travels beyond the sea and
marry money. —Good afternoon, Mrs Sheehy. Those today. Chap in dresscircle staring down
into her with his operaglass for all he was worth. Puke it out!
Be candid for once. )_

BABY BOARDMAN: _(Hiccups, curdled milk flowing from his mouth. I am the
murderer of Samuel Childs. Wants to cross. )_ Silk, mistress said! O crinkly! scrapy! Must I
tiptouch it with my nails?

BELLO: _(Points to his whores. Must come. )_

THE URCHINS: Mind out, mister!

(_Two cyclists, with lighted paper lanterns aswing, swim by him,
grazing him, their bells rattling. I think it will be a success
too. JOHN EGLINTON: _(Produces a greencapped dark lantern and flashes it
towards a corner: with carping accent. Nicely planed. _(From left upper entrance with two gliding steps Henry Flower comes
forward to left front centre. There
or the armpits or under the neck. But one should be charitable. Brendan, Marshal MacMahon, Charlemagne, Theobald Wolfe Tone,
the Mother of the Maccabees, the Last of the Mohicans, the Rose of
Castile, the Man for Galway, The Man that Broke the Bank at Monte
Carlo, The Man in the Gap, The Woman Who Didn’t, Benjamin Franklin,
Napoleon Bonaparte, John L. —Mkgnao!

—O, there you are, Mr Bloom said, turning from the fire. Quickly, warningfully Buck Mulligan bent down. He offended your memory. She has the Spanish type. —Will you wait in my study for a moment, Mr Deasy said, till I restore
order here. “YOU CAN DO IT!”


The editor laid a nervous hand on Stephen’s shoulder. MRS YELVERTON BARRY: Me too. Twelve. Better be careful not to
get these trousers dirty for the funeral. Enough of the inflated
windbag!

—_Peaks_, Ned Lambert went on, _towering high on high, to bathe our
souls, as it were. Windfall when he kicks out. Somewhere
imperceptibly he would hear and somehow reluctantly, suncompelled, obey
the summons of recall. Richard and S. Because he no pay me my moneys?_

For nonperishable goods bought of Moses Herzog, of 13 Saint Kevin’s
parade in the city of Dublin, Wood quay ward, merchant, hereinafter
called the vendor, and sold and delivered to Michael E. Shovelling them under by the cartload doublequick. Then who’d wash up all the plates and forks? Might be all
feeding on tabloids that time. You were never here before, Jack, were
you?

—No, Ned. Wonder is
that young Dedalus the moving spirit. )_ Go, go, go, I conjure
you, whoever you are!

_(A male cough and tread are heard passing through the mist outside. He was gone. The keeper of the Kildare street museum appears,
dragging a lorry on which are the shaking statues of several naked
goddesses, Venus Callipyge, Venus Pandemos, Venus Metempsychosis, and
plaster figures, also naked, representing the new nine muses, Commerce,
Operatic Music, Amor, Publicity, Manufacture, Liberty of Speech, Plural
Voting, Gastronomy, Private Hygiene, Seaside Concert Entertainments,
Painless Obstetrics and Astronomy for the People. )_ Can you see the beautyspot of my
behind?

LYNCH: I’m not looking

ZOE: _(Makes sheep’s eyes. , and every male that’s born they think it may be their
Messiah. )_ O blessed Redeemer, what have
they done to him! My smelling salts! _(She hauls up a reef of skirt and
ransacks the pouch of her striped blay petticoat. Bass’s bay filly Sceptre on a 2 1/2 mile course. Farmhouse, wall round
it, blurred cattle cropping. The Lyons mail. Dolphin’s Barn. Thought so. Ben Dollard bulkily cachuchad towards the bar, mightily praisefed and
all big roseate, on heavyfooted feet, his gouty fingers nakkering
castagnettes in the air. Aphro. I mean of course it’s all pom pom pom very much what they call
_da capo. He’s gone to Gill’s to buy Hyde’s _Lovesongs of Connacht_. To me, to him, to
her, you too, me, us. What points of contact existed between these languages and between the
peoples who spoke them?

The presence of guttural sounds, diacritic aspirations, epenthetic and
servile letters in both languages: their antiquity, both having been
taught on the plain of Shinar 242 years after the deluge in the
seminary instituted by Fenius Farsaigh, descendant of Noah, progenitor
of Israel, and ascendant of Heber and Heremon, progenitors of Ireland:
their archaeological, genealogical, hagiographical, exegetical,
homiletic, toponomastic, historical and religious literatures
comprising the works of rabbis and culdees, Torah, Talmud (Mischna and
Ghemara), Massor, Pentateuch, Book of the Dun Cow, Book of Ballymote,
Garland of Howth, Book of Kells: their dispersal, persecution, survival
and revival: the isolation of their synagogical and ecclesiastical
rites in ghetto (S. Never see
him dressed up as a fireman or a bobby. Always find out this equal to that. With a heart and a half if I could raise the
wind anyhow. Cap in hand goes through the land. And the learning knight let pour for childe Leopold a draught and halp
thereto the while all they that were there drank every each. August bank holiday, only two
and six return. —Ireland, says Bloom. Mr Bloom stood by, hearing the loud throbs of cranks,
watching the silent typesetters at their cases. But he
knows them all. paralysed with the laughing. Sumptuous and stagnant exaggeration of murder. —Don’t tell anyone, says the citizen, letting a bawl out of him. Writ, I ween, ’twas not my wish
     In lean unlovely English. —What’s wrong now?

A divided drove of branded cattle passed the windows, lowing, slouching
by on padded hoofs, whisking their tails slowly on their clotted bony
croups. All souls’ day. Also the form, the
figure. He drank a draught of
cooler tea to wash down his meal. On leaving
the church of Saint Fiacre _in Horto_ after the papal blessing the
happy pair were subjected to a playful crossfire of hazelnuts,
beechmast, bayleaves, catkins of willow, ivytod, hollyberries,
mistletoe sprigs and quicken shoots. In Bloom’s little wee. _(Overcome with emotion. ) Hynes, may I speak to you? You know me. —He doesn’t buy cream on the ads he picks up. Besides, though
taste latterly had deteriorated to a degree, original music like that,
different from the conventional rut, would rapidly have a great vogue
as it would be a decided novelty for Dublin’s musical world after the
usual hackneyed run of catchy tenor solos foisted on a confiding public
by Ivan St Austell and Hilton St Just and their _genus omne_. For answer Tom Rochford pressed his hand to his breastbone and
hiccupped. Peaceful eyes. —Your _beau,_ is it?

A haughty bronze replied:

—I’ll complain to Mrs de Massey on you if I hear any more of your
impertinent insolence. Skinfood. Cypherjugglers
going the highroads. Which side will
she get up?

—And he said: _Sad thing about our poor friend Paddy! What Paddy?_ I
said. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Your
name entered for life as owner in the book of the union. —Are there any letters for me? he asked. Feel better. Let us build an altar to Jehovah_. )_ Encore! Encore!

STEPHEN: Mark me. Bloom’s decision?

A stratagem. I
like to break a lance with you, old as I am. Lady Mountcashel has quite recovered after her confinement
and rode out with the Ward Union staghounds at the enlargement
yesterday at Rathoath. Taking it easy
with hand under his cheek. ; the rev. He came to the table, pinning together his sheets. Now I am speculating what it
would be likely to be. He heard more
faintly that that they heard, each for herself alone, then each for
other, hearing the plash of waves, loudly, a silent roar. The barrow had ceased to
trundle. _ Telegraph. Stanislaus Kostka and S. How long ago is that? Year Phil
Gilligan died. For Liverpool probably. Shapely too. )_ Fingers was made before forks. Ought to attend to my appearance my age. Tune pianos. The
observatory of Dunsink registered in all eleven shocks, all of the
fifth grade of Mercalli’s scale, and there is no record extant of a
similar seismic disturbance in our island since the earthquake of 1534,
the year of the rebellion of Silken Thomas. Wouldn’t it be more decent
than galloping two abreast?

—Well, there’s something in that, Mr Dedalus granted. Believe he does some literary work
for the _Express_ with Gabriel Conroy. _(A card falls from inside the leather headband of Bloom’s hat. Denzille lane this way. )_ Clever. Forgotten. for Cork City), the programme of peace,
retrenchment and reform of William Ewart Gladstone (M. Blue
fluid again flows over her flesh. She was wearing the blue for luck, hoping against hope, her
own colour and lucky too for a bride to have a bit of blue somewhere on
her because the green she wore that day week brought grief because his
father brought him in to study for the intermediate exhibition and
because she thought perhaps he might be out because when she was
dressing that morning she nearly slipped up the old pair on her inside
out and that was for luck and lovers’ meeting if you put those things
on inside out or if they got untied that he was thinking about you so
long as it wasn’t of a Friday. Let her pass. Naughty boy: punish: afraid of words, of course. Few lines will do. —Yes? Buck Mulligan said. Downy hair there too. "

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. I gave him all the
particulars. He drew the letter from his pocket and folded it into the newspaper he
carried. Other comedown. To all whom it may concern schedule
pursuant to statute showing return of number of mules and jennets
exported from Ballina. probably for his coffee, play chess
there. Let us change the subject. After God
Shakespeare has created most. But I will fight for the right till the end. All for number one. Goodbye now, naughty darling, I
have such a bad headache. The gules doublet and
merry saint George for me!

STEPHEN:

     The harlot’s cry from street to street
     Shall weave Old Ireland’s windingsheet. The impression made by his
words was immediate but shortlived. 20 years are passed in sleep. Some say they remember their
past lives. A phrase, then, of impatience, thud of Blake’s wings
of excess. Laughter in court. I swear on my sacred oath. Snuffy Dr Murren. The
demon possessed me. And that awful drunkard of
a wife of his. Pwee! Little wind piped wee. —I blow him out about you, Buck Mulligan said, and then you come along
with your lousy leer and your gloomy jesuit jibes. Sllt. —Seven days in jail, Ben Dollard said, on bread and water. )_ I don’t know your name but you are
quite right. Rockbottom figure and
cheap at the price. —Stand up straight, girl, he said. —He can find no trace of hell in ancient Irish myth, Haines said, amid
the cheerful cups. It’s nine days today. Not much grief there. 2. The hungry famished gull
     Flaps o’er the waters dull. Poor thing! Three days! That’s
terrible for her. High water at Dublin bar. —A quart, Stephen said. MARION: So you notice some change? _(Her hands passing slowly over her
trinketed stomacher, a slow friendly mockery in her eyes. Don’t see him. That
you may and very opportunely. Otherwise I couldn’t have. Trust me. My ash sword hangs at
my side. Still. Christ’s rood made she on breastbone and him drew that he would rathe
infare under her thatch. He went towards the window and, taking up the pettycash book, scanned
its pages. Lenehan extended his hands in protest. Square it you with the boss and we’ll split the
job, see?

How much would that tot to off the porter in the month? Say ten barrels
of stuff. What is this she was? Barmaid in Jury’s. )_ Here! Hold on!
Don’t run amok!

BELLA: Police!

_(Stephen, abandoning his ashplant, his head and arms thrown back
stark, beats the ground and flies from the room, past the whores at the
door. , Mus. Barber’s itch. They went
under. Slaking his drouth. White. F. O, surely he bagged it. Charley Kavanagh used to come out on his
high horse, cocked hat, puffed, powdered and shaved. Think you’re the only pebble on the beach? Does that to all. _(He plodges through their sump towards the lighted street beyond. —Hello, Ned. She bows her old head to a voice
that speaks to her loudly, her bonesetter, her medicineman: me she
slights. Cricket weather. _(He winces. —Here’s fortune, Blazes said. So be off now, says he, and do all my
cousin german the lord Harry tells you and take a farmer’s blessing,
and with that he slapped his posteriors very soundly. Famine, plague
and slaughters. He can never be a poet. )_ Portobello barracks canteen. He wails with the vehemence of the ocean. —What? Haines said, beginning to point at Stephen. Come around with the plate
perhaps. Enough of this place. Does he write anything for your movement?

He sank two lumps of sugar deftly longwise through the whipped cream. And played so
exquisitely, treat to hear. P. I shipped to get over. )_ God help your head, he knows more than you have
forgotten. Knife with which Voisin
dismembered the wife of a compatriot and hid remains in a sheet in the
cellar, the unfortunate female’s throat being cut from ear to ear. —I thought so, says Joe. Because they want it
themselves. Ay. I’m
quite frank with you. —I read a theological interpretation of it somewhere, he said bemused. Her very soul is in her eyes and she would give
worlds to be in the privacy of her own familiar chamber where, giving
way to tears, she could have a good cry and relieve her pentup feelings
though not too much because she knew how to cry nicely before the
mirror. And with a woman, for instance. Zoe and Kitty
still point right. Unless you’re in the know. To the voice that will shrive and oil for the grave all there
is of her but her woman’s unclean loins, of man’s flesh made not in
God’s likeness, the serpent’s prey. She had a gorgeous, simply gorgeous, time. Off colour after Kiernan’s, Dignam’s. Open house. He looked towards the saloon door. Tara: bom bom bom. _Cui bono?_ But our bucaneering Vanderdeckens in
their phantom ship of finance. )_

THE END OF THE WORLD: _(With a Scotch accent. —How did he lose it? Ned Lambert asked. A tolerant
smile curled his lips. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1. They chose a small table near the window, opposite a longfaced man
whose beard and gaze hung intently down on a chessboard. BLOOM: _(His eyes closing, quails expectantly. Dth! Dth!

—I’m sorry to hear that, he said. She had cut it that very morning on account of the
new moon and it nestled about her pretty head in a profusion of
luxuriant clusters and pared her nails too, Thursday for wealth. Playgoers’ Club. STEPHEN: _(Nods, smiling and laughing. Echo. Agenbite of inwit: remorse of conscience. Taste it better because I’m not thirsty. She twentythree. —What’s wrong?

—We’re stopped. Avowal. —B is parkgate. )_

ZOE: _(Widening her slip to screen her. Poor Dignam!




[ 5 ]


By lorries along sir John Rogerson’s quay Mr Bloom walked soberly, past
Windmill lane, Leask’s the linseed crusher, the postal telegraph
office. Why I bought her
the violet garters. _Amor matris_, subjective and objective genitive, may be the only true
thing in life. Foot and mouth? Are you turned. I have a
pain. Well? What do
you expect her to do? Must wheedle her way along. It will hurt you. He’s quite enthusiastic, don’t
you know, about Hyde’s _Lovesongs of Connacht. JOHN O’CONNELL: _(Foghorns stormily through his megaphone. —They’re great for the cold steel, somebody who was evidently quite in
the dark said for the benefit of them all. Positively last appearance on any stage. Nones. Ben Dollard does sing that ballad
touchingly. He said he’ll be in the Ormond at four. Also the library today: those girl graduates. There is,
I feel in the words, some goad of the flesh driving him into a new
passion, a darker shadow of the first, darkening even his own
understanding of himself. _(Stephen claps hat on head and leaps over to the fireplace where he
stands with shrugged shoulders, finny hands outspread, a painted smile
on his face. The new I want. )_ Remove
him, acushla. _(His head aslant he blesses curtly with fore and middle fingers,
imparts the Easter kiss and doubleshuffles off comically, swaying his
hat from side to side, shrinking quickly to the size of his
trainbearers. The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Fintan and
S. When you look back on it all now
in a kind of retrospective arrangement. )_

GEORGE FOTTRELL: _(Clerk of the crown and peace, resonantly. POST NO BILLS. Bumboosers, save your stamps. Here is all he. The bells of George’s
church. A portly man, ambushed among the
grasses, raised his hat in homage. But those that came to the land of the free remember
the land of bondage. _Dreck!_

_(Henry Flower combs his moustache and beard rapidly with a pocketcomb
and gives a cow’s lick to his hair. Pores to dilate dilating. —After you, Mr Bloom said. Fanned by a constant updraught of
ventilation between the kitchen and the chimneyflue, ignition was
communicated from the faggots of precombustible fuel to polyhedral
masses of bituminous coal, containing in compressed mineral form the
foliated fossilised decidua of primeval forests which had in turn
derived their vegetative existence from the sun, primal source of heat
(radiant), transmitted through omnipresent luminiferous diathermanous
ether. He gives the pilgrim warrior’s sign of the knights templars. Amen. He bent down to regard a lean file of spearmint growing by the wall. )_

THE BUTTON: Bip!

_(Two sluts of the Coombe dance rainily by, shawled, yelling flatly. Lenehan lit their cigarettes as before and took his
trophy, saying:

—Muchibus thankibus. Father Bob Cowley played. )_

THE HUE AND CRY: _(Helterskelterpelterwelter. Bloom pats with parcelled hands watch, fobpocket, bookpocket,
pursepoke, sweets of sin, potato soap. A. He laughed, unmarried, at Eglinton Johannes, of arts a bachelor. Could hear them all at it. By heaven, Theodore Purefoy, thou hast done
a doughty deed and no botch! Thou art, I vow, the remarkablest
progenitor barring none in this chaffering allincluding most
farraginous chronicle. He wants
two keys at the top. Near her monthlies, I expect, makes them feel ticklish. Those poor birds. A sleek brown head, a
seal’s, far out on the water, round. She
puffs calmly at her cigarette. Defrauding widows and orphans. Halted, below me, a quizzer looks at me. —That reminds me, Mr Deasy said. He went in. Like
holding water in your hand. —And Reuben J, Martin Cunningham said, gave the boatman a florin for
saving his son’s life. Anything strange or wonderful, Joe?

—Not a word, says Joe. There’s a lemon in the
locker. For her birthday perhaps. He understood however from all he heard that Dr Mulligan was a
versatile allround man, by no means confined to medicine only, who was
rapidly coming to the fore in his line and, if the report was verified,
bade fair to enjoy a flourishing practice in the not too distant future
as a tony medical practitioner drawing a handsome fee for his services
in addition to which professional status his rescue of that man from
certain drowning by artificial respiration and what they call first aid
at Skerries, or Malahide was it?, was, he was bound to admit, an
exceedingly plucky deed which he could not too highly praise, so that
frankly he was utterly at a loss to fathom what earthly reason could be
at the back of it except he put it down to sheer cussedness or
jealousy, pure and simple. Watch him! Out he goes again. —Come on, Ben, Simon Dedalus cried. Is it possible that that player Shakespeare, a ghost by absence, and in
the vesture of buried Denmark, a ghost by death, speaking his own words
to his own son’s name (had Hamnet Shakespeare lived he would have been
prince Hamlet’s twin), is it possible, I want to know, or probable that
he did not draw or foresee the logical conclusion of those premises:
you are the dispossessed son: I am the murdered father: your mother is
the guilty queen, Ann Shakespeare, born Hathaway?

—But this prying into the family life of a great man, Russell began
impatiently. Member of the corporation too. They are not to be thought away. BLOOM: _(With feeling. _C’est vendredi saint!_ Murthering Irish. Now who is that lankylooking galoot
over there in the macintosh? Now who is he I’d like to know? Now I’d
give a trifle to know who he is. Serpents too are gluttons for woman’s milk. Light swift her eyes kindled, bloom of
blushes his word winning. —Persecution, says he, all the history of the world is full of it. Sixteen years ago I twentytwo tumbled. —As regards these, he began. _(He darts to cross the road. _(With a voice of whistling seawind. Thinks he’ll win in _Answers_, poets’
picture puzzle. Going to be trouble there one day. Wheelbarrow sun over arch of bridge. Nice fellow. Then he carried the dish and a large teapot over to the table, set
them down heavily and sighed with relief. Come along. —Chews coca all day, the communicative tarpaulin added. Lover, for her
love he prowled with colonel Richard Burke, tanist of his sept, under
the walls of Clerkenwell and, crouching, saw a flame of vengeance hurl
them upward in the fog. You have made your
secondbest bed and others must lie in it. Ay, very like a whale. —And tell us, Hynes said, do you know that fellow in the, fellow was
over there in the. )_ Also me. —Anyhow, says Joe, Field and Nannetti are going over tonight to London
to ask about it on the floor of the house of commons. —But listen to this, he said. At Haddington road
corner two sanded women halted themselves, an umbrella and a bag in
which eleven cockles rolled to view with wonder the lord mayor and lady
mayoress without his golden chain. One
moment. He kills his mother but he can’t wear grey
trousers. Observe
the mass of oxygenated vegetable matter on her skull. Washing child, washing corpse. Kitty Ricketts licks her middle finger with her
spittle and, gazing in the mirror, smooths both eyebrows. The individual whose visual organs while the above
was going on were at this juncture commencing to exhibit symptoms of
animation was as astute if not astuter than any man living and anybody
that conjectured the contrary would have found themselves pretty
speedily in the wrong shop. His right hand once more more slowly went over his brow and
hair. Make room in the bed. PRIVATE CARR: _(Tugging at his belt. A batch
knelt at the altarrails. The sheeted mirror. —That can be explained by science, says Bloom. )_ Naughty cruel I was!

BLOOM: _(Low, secretly, ever more rapidly. _Venga a trovarmi
e ci pensi. —Were you robbing the poorbox, Joe? says I. That squinty one is
delicate. His snout
lifted barked at the wavenoise, herds of seamorse. —A letter for me from Milly, he said carefully, and a card to you. Not
hurt? O, that’s all right. A gruff squire on horseback with shiny topboots. Visit some day. you know. He had reached the open backdoor of All Hallows. It asks me too. Court dresses of all descriptions in castle
chambers dancing. Mrs Marion. Next the Scotchman was the place
assigned to Costello, the eccentric, while at his side was seated in
stolid repose the squat form of Madden. A
pause by the wayside. Wrangle
with Molly it was put me off. )_ We have met. We know
that in the castle. Trombone under blowing like a grampus,
between the acts, other brass chap unscrewing, emptying spittle. Why did absence of light disturb him less than presence of noise?

Because of the surety of the sense of touch in his firm full masculine
feminine passive active hand. _(Florry whispers to her. Liverpool boat long gone. M. I don’t
want to be imposed on. He broke off in alarm, feeling his side under his flapping shirt. But with a little goodwill all round. That man her will wotting worthful went in
Horne’s house. MARY DRISCOLL: _(Excitedly. Myler Keogh, Dublin’s pet lamb, will
meet sergeantmajor Bennett, the Portobello bruiser, for a purse of
fifty sovereigns. He stood
up, undoing the waistband of his trousers. Into their bar strolled Mr Dedalus. Tap. ) C’était le sacré pigeon, Philippe. B. BLOOM: Thank you, mistress. You will shed your
male garments, you understand, Ruby Cohen? and don the shot silk
luxuriously rustling over head and shoulders. S. Five number ones. )_ Gridiron. He listened to her licking lap. Tiptop position for a pub. The lychgate of a field showed Father Conmee breadths of cabbages,
curtseying to him with ample underleaves. There he is. —Curious coincidence, Mr Bloom confided to Stephen unobtrusively. The two
fought like tigers and excitement ran fever high. I asked that
old fogey in Boyd’s for something for my skin. Shows the profound knowledge of the human
heart. Letter? No. Biff
him one, Harry. He felt heavy, full: then a gentle loosening of his bowels. )_

BLOOM: _(In triumph. In what directions did listener and narrator lie?

Listener, S. In the gloomy domed livingroom of the tower Buck Mulligan’s gowned form
moved briskly to and fro about the hearth, hiding and revealing its
yellow glow. Allow me to
introduce my. )_ Pretty pretty
pretty pretty pretty pretty petticoats. James Carlisle made that. How
are all your charges?

—All on the baker’s list, Mrs Breen said. _(J. )

CISSY CAFFREY: They’re going to fight. Waters: bitter death: lost. Puck Mulligan footed featly, trilling:

     I hardly hear the purlieu cry
     Or a Tommy talk as I pass one by
     Before my thoughts begin to run
     On F. Mullingar. A cheese sandwich, then. Do you follow me?

FIRST WATCH: _(Turns to the crowd. The cat went up in
soft bounds. Did you see anything of your artist
brother Stephen lately? No? Sure he’s not down in Strasburg terrace
with his aunt Sally? Couldn’t he fly a bit higher than that, eh? And
and and and tell us, Stephen, how is uncle Si? O, weeping God, the
things I married into! De boys up in de hayloft. Amen. ’s leg. She was leading the field. Handed him the father and mother of a beating. Fiacre and Scotus on their creepystools in heaven spilt
from their pintpots, loudlatinlaughing: _Euge! Euge!_ Pretending to
speak broken English as you dragged your valise, porter threepence,
across the slimy pier at Newhaven. BLOOM: Wrong. Hushmoney by moral influence, possibly. But, by Saint Patrick. The traitor’s son. Going the two
days. Paddy Leonard eyed his alemates. What now is
will then morrow as now was be past yester. A scheme to enclose the peninsular delta of the North Bull at
Dollymount and erect on the space of the foreland, used for golf links
and rifle ranges, an asphalted esplanade with casinos, booths, shooting
galleries, hotels, boardinghouses, readingrooms, establishments for
mixed bathing. Twilight. Yet too much happy bores. —For a guinea, Stephen said, you can publish this interview. I would try. What was Stephen’s auditive sensation?

He heard in a profound ancient male unfamiliar melody the accumulation
of the past. There wanted nothing but this cup to
crown my felicity. )_ Wait. The
boy by the gravehead held his wreath with both hands staring quietly in
the black open space. —Hello, Joe. There were
sunspots that summer. He may suffer their memory to grow
dim, let them be as though they had not been and all but persuade
himself that they were not or at least were otherwise. S. Ay,
they drove out the peasants in hordes. backstairs influence by. A ribald face, sullen as a dean’s, Buck Mulligan came forward, then
blithe in motley, towards the greeting of their smiles. Wonderful liar. Coastguards too. His hands and feet sing
too. A card _Unfurnished Apartments_ reappeared on the windowsash of number
7 Eccles street. Want to be grownups. sarebbe un cespite di rendita, via. Miss voice of Kennedy answered, a second teacup poised, her
gaze upon a page:

—No. Learned when I served my time and worked the mail order line for
Kellett’s. Still it was a kind of language between us. Cartoons. —Let us go round by the chief’s grave, Hynes said. —That was terrible, Mr Power’s shocked face said, and the corpse fell
about the road. Wife locked up at home, skeleton in the cupboard. —He’s a perverted jew, says Martin, from a place in Hungary and it was
he drew up all the plans according to the Hungarian system. Bat
again. The rich of a rasher fried with a herring? Sure? So much the
better. Three cheers for the sister-in-law he
hawked about, three fangs in her mouth. Unlawfully
watching and besetting. And after? The Ship, half
twelve. Haunting face. Lovely. to her. Bonafides. Buck Mulligan bent across to Stephen
and said with coarse vigour:

—You put your hoof in it now. He bent to make a bundle of the other books, hugged them against his
unbuttoned waistcoat and bore them off behind the dingy curtain. Fall from cliff. Buy paper. Pick the bones
clean no matter who it was. )_ There’s fine depth for you! What, boys? That give you a
hardon? _(He shoves his arm in a bidder’s face. Safe in one
way. Fresh air helps
memory. Bob Cowley wove. She
thought she understood. A warm
tingling glow without effusion. He’s back from Paris. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. )_ O, not for worlds. Mr Bloom at gaze saw a lithe young man,
clad in mourning, a wide hat. Bella Cohen, a massive whoremistress, enters. Almonds or. He bit off a soft piece hungrily. you’re a liar, excuse me. )_ Stop
twirling your thumbs and have a good old thunk. He put it back in his
sidepocket and took from his waistcoatpocket a nickel tinderbox, sprang
it open too, and, having lit his cigarette, held the flaming spunk
towards Stephen in the shell of his hands. And Noah was drunk with wine. Speak you englishman
tongue for _double entente cordiale. The guarded glance of half solicitude half curiosity augmented by
friendliness which he gave at Stephen’s at present morose expression of
features did not throw a flood of light, none at all in fact on the
problem as to whether he had let himself be badly bamboozled to judge
by two or three lowspirited remarks he let drop or the other way about
saw through the affair and for some reason or other best known to
himself allowed matters to more or less. I must see about that ad after the funeral. Good practical catholic: useful at mission time. Turma circumdet. She’s not
nicelooking, is she? The way she’s holding up her bit of a skirt. Liszt’s rhapsodies. A BLACKSMITH: _(Murmurs. Bright midges dance on walls. Quite bad. —Ay, boss, the sailor broke in. Waiting always for a
word of help his hand moved faithfully the unsteady symbols, a faint
hue of shame flickering behind his dull skin. —Then, Stephen said staring and rambling on to himself or some unknown
listener somewhere, we have the impetuosity of Dante and the isosceles
triangle miss Portinari he fell in love with and Leonardo and san
Tommaso Mastino. Course then you’d have all the cranks pestering. Tap. It heals and soothes while you sleep, in case of trouble in breaking
wind, assists nature in the most formidable way, insuring instant
relief in discharge of gases, keeping parts clean and free natural
action, an initial outlay of 7/6 making a new man of you and life worth
living. Taking my
motives he twined and turned them. His collar too sprang up. —What do you mean? Mr Deasy asked. So
stood they there both awhile in wanhope sorrowing one with other. Warm. JOE HYNES: Why aren’t you in uniform?

BLOOM: When my progenitor of sainted memory wore the uniform of the
Austrian despot in a dank prison where was yours?

BEN DOLLARD: Pansies?

BLOOM: Embellish (beautify) suburban gardens. by E. _(She glides away crookedly. She
was wearing her black and it had the perfume of the time before. —I quaffed the nectarbowl with him this very day, said Lenehan. Lend him to me. ; the rev. He looked indecisively for a moment at their faces. He told me about, hold on, Swinburne, was it, no?

FLORRY: And the song?

STEPHEN: Spirit is willing but the flesh is weak. City Arms hotel _table d’hôte_ she
called it. _(He laughs. Behind. Satan,
you’ll sing no more lovesongs. I have never felt myself so much drawn to a
man as you. —Why, sir? Stephen asked, beginning to smile. Hate at first sight. Nannan. Cleave to her! Serve! Toil on, labour like a very bandog
and let scholarment and all Malthusiasts go hang. He eat me my sugars. Also literary labour not merely for the kudos of the
thing. All instinct like the bird in drouth got water out of the end of
a jar by throwing in pebbles. Stunned like,
seeing as how no shiners is acoming. Sooner have me as I am than some poet chap with
bearsgrease plastery hair, lovelock over his dexter optic. Across the threadbare cuffedge he saw the sea hailed as a
great sweet mother by the wellfed voice beside him. That brings those rakes of
fellows in: her white. Tuberculosis, lunacy, war and
mendicancy must now cease. _ray of hope is_. Yet if I
went the whole hog, say: I want to, something like that. But anon they were overcome with grief and clasped
their hands for the last time. —The rage of Caliban at not seeing his face in a mirror, he said. Hippogriff. An exception here and there. O’Molloy’s hand and raises it to his
lips. What interchanges of looks took place between these three objects and
Bloom?

In the mirror of the giltbordered pierglass the undecorated back of the
dwarf tree regarded the upright back of the embalmed owl. Not this _Monsieur_, I said. Fading gold sky. About
the nature of women he read in Michelet. Cosy smell of her bathwater. Born all in the dark wormy earth, cold specks of fire, evil, lights
shining in the darkness. His questioner perceiving that he was not
likely to get a great deal of change out of such a wily old customer,
fell to woolgathering on the enormous dimensions of the water about the
globe, suffice it to say that, as a casual glance at the map revealed,
it covered fully three fourths of it and he fully realised accordingly
what it meant to rule the waves. What reminiscences temporarily corrugated his brow?

Reminiscences of coincidences, truth stranger than fiction,
preindicative of the result of the Gold Cup flat handicap, the official
and definitive result of which he had read in the _Evening Telegraph_,
late pink edition, in the cabman’s shelter, at Butt bridge. He’ll square that, Ned, says he. )_

PADDY DIGNAM: _(In a hollow voice. What anthem did Bloom chant partially in anticipation of that multiple,
ethnically irreducible consummation?

     Kolod balejwaw pnimah
     Nefesch, jehudi, homijah. _Tom
Rochford, robinredbreasted, in cap and breeches, jumps from his
twocolumned machine. Tail gone now. To heaven by water. Print anything now. —Three, Mr Deasy said, turning his little savingsbox about in his hand. Now let us speak of that fellowship that was there to the intent to be
drunken an they might. I called you naughty boy. The answer is a lemon. Why have women such eyes of witchery?
Gerty’s were of the bluest Irish blue, set off by lustrous lashes and
dark expressive brows. Different with me. —Mrs Bloom, my wife the _prima donna_ Madam Marion Tweedy, Bloom
indicated. _

Their eyes watched him. Solicitor, I think. His
foremother. All lost in pity for croppy. 32 feet per second. O how I long to
meet you. J. —Piper! Mr Best piped. Always happening like that. What Arthur Griffith said about the headpiece over the _Freeman_
leader: a homerule sun rising up in the northwest from the laneway
behind the bank of Ireland. —You’re the essence of vulgarity, she in gliding said. Must come back. Then snatch
your purse. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support. Hotblooded young student fooling round her fat arms
ironing. Moi, je suis socialiste. Davy Byrne came forward from the hindbar in tuckstitched shirtsleeves,
cleaning his lips with two wipes of his napkin. Where do they get the money? Coming up redheaded curates from the
county Leitrim, rinsing empties and old man in the cellar. Do anything you like with figures juggling. Gripe, yes. [Illustration]

How did the father of Millicent receive this second part?

With mixed feelings. Near bronze from anear near gold from afar they chinked their clinking
glasses all, brighteyed and gallant, before bronze Lydia’s tempting
last rose of summer, rose of Castile. He jerked short before the convent of the
sisters of charity and held out a peaked cap for alms towards the very
reverend John Conmee S. _(He wags his head with
cackling raillery. )_
Catch!

_(She tosses a piece. O. _Voyages in China_ by “Viator” (recovered with brown paper, red ink
title). That’ll be all right. Over their voices Dollard bassooned attack, booming over bombarding
chords:

—_When love absorbs my ardent soul_. _(He
winces. —Who? the other, whose hand by the way was hurt, said. There master Courtenay, sitting in his own chamber, gave
his rede and master Justice Andrews, sitting without a jury in the
probate court, weighed well and pondered the claim of the first
chargeant upon the property in the matter of the will propounded and
final testamentary disposition _in re_ the real and personal estate of
the late lamented Jacob Halliday, vintner, deceased, versus
Livingstone, an infant, of unsound mind, and another. Now I bet it makes
them feel happy. Denis will be like that one of these
days. By word and deed he frankly
encouraged a nocturnal strumpet to deposit fecal and other matter in an
unsanitary outhouse attached to empty premises. Cork air softer also their brogue. How did she do?

A fine carriage she had. _(The soldiers turn their swimming eyes. _Sonnez. That tired feeling. )_ Come home. —Drink! the editor cried. In here. Richie Goulding and the legal bag. His eyes watched it, lowlying on the horizon, eastward of the
bear, as he walked by the slumberous summer fields at midnight
returning from Shottery and from her arms. Is he in love with that one, Marion?
Change it and get another by Mary Cecil Haye. Yes, must. Women especially are so touchy. He began:

_—Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen: Great was my admiration in
listening to the remarks addressed to the youth of Ireland a moment
since by my learned friend. Going down the path of Sycamore street beside the Empire musichall
Lenehan showed M’Coy how the whole thing was. Then sloping off with his five quid without putting up a pint of
stuff like a man. Daresay he writes him an odd shaky cheque or two on
gale days. Strange kind of music that last night. If he doesn’t conduct himself
I’ll wring his ear for him a yard long. Golden ship. Menton, solicitor, commissioner for oaths and affidavits, of 27
Bachelor’s Walk. —The O’Connell circle, Mr Dedalus said about him. The rum tum tum. It is a colossal edifice with crystal roof, built in the
shape of a huge pork kidney, containing forty thousand rooms. Yellow knees. Do they know what they cart out
here every day? Must be twenty or thirty funerals every day. Where are
they? That’s all right. Janey Mack, I’m choked!

He howled, without looking up from the fire:

—Kinch!

—It’s in the lock, Stephen said, coming forward. —I can quite understand that, he said calmly. Acoustics that is. O. )_

BELLA: _(Laughing. —God’s curse on you, he said sourly, whoever you are! You’re blinder
nor I am, you bitch’s bastard!

*    *    *


Opposite Ruggy O’Donohoe’s Master Patrick Aloysius Dignam, pawing the
pound and a half of Mangan’s, late Fehrenbach’s, porksteaks he had been
sent for, went along warm Wicklow street dawdling. —When is long John going to hang that fellow in Mountjoy? says Joe. LYSTER: _(In quakergrey kneebreeches and broadbrimmed hat, says
discreetly. _My Experiences_, let us say, _in a Cabman’s Shelter_. Brigid
and S. )_ What are you hiding behind your
back? Tell us, there’s a dear. More women than men in
the world. Time to get a bath round the corner. Thursday. Uncertain
in his movements. —Of the offence to me, Stephen answered. _L’art d’être
grand_. He drank drugs to obliterate. He went to the door and, holding it ajar, paused. Your God. —Recorder, says Ned. Almost
human the way it sllt to call attention. That’s the
vital issue at stake and it’s feasible and would be provocative of
friendlier intercourse between man and man. —Rely on me, says Joe. He pushed in the glass swingdoor and entered, stepping over strewn
packing paper. I was, faith. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition. Something in all those superstitions because when
you go out never know what dangers. Twig? Shrieks of silence. More room if they buried them standing. After their feed with a good load of fat soup under their
belts. —Send it at once, will you? he said. Old Bloom. BLOOM: Gentlemen of the jury, let me explain. Stowing in the wreaths probably. Where eat? The Clarence, Dolphin. )_ My name is Virag Lipoti, of
Szombathely. He murmured then with blond delight for all:

     Between the acres of the rye
     These pretty countryfolk would lie. Nat. Dinner of thirty courses. However _haud ignarus malorum
miseris succurrere disco etcetera_ as the Latin poet remarks especially
as luck would have it he got paid his screw after every middle of the
month on the sixteenth which was the date of the month as a matter of
fact though a good bit of the wherewithal was demolished. _

—_Et cum spiritu tuo. No: _vorrei e non_. _Nations of the earth. Why is that, I wonder, or does it mean something perhaps?

My handkerchief. Doctor Finucane pronounced life extinct when I succumbed to the disease
from natural causes. —Answering an ad? keen Richie’s eyes asked Bloom. I remember the old drummajor. NOSEY FLYNN: Can I raise a mortgage on my fire insurance?

BLOOM: _(Obdurately. Shop closes early on Thursday. He tossed the tissues on to the table. Easier to enlist and drill. Uwantit (Combined pocket twoblade penknife with corkscrew, nailfile and
pipecleaner). Act. _Waiting_ she sang. She lives in Leeson park with a
grief and kickshaws, a lady of letters. Through the open doorway the bar squirted out
whiffs of ginger, teadust, biscuitmush. She poured more tea into her cup, watching it flow sideways. The welterweight sergeantmajor had
tapped some lively claret in the previous mixup during which Keogh had
been receivergeneral of rights and lefts, the artilleryman putting in
some neat work on the pet’s nose, and Myler came on looking groggy. Back out
you get the knife. Keep a watch on the clock. Maul her a bit. In calculating
the addenda of bills she frequently had recourse to digital aid. Present address: Saint
Michael’s, Sallins. The rite is the poet’s rest. Old Gummy Granny in sugarloaf hat appears
seated on a toadstool, the deathflower of the potato blight on her
breast. He turned Combridge’s corner, still pursued. His left hand grasps a huge crayfish
by its two talons. —Ho, varlet! cried he, who by his mien seemed the leader of the party. Lord, is he going to attack me? Respect his liberty. Corns on his
kismet however. )_

ALL: What?

THE HOBGOBLIN: _(His jaws chattering, capers to and fro, goggling his
eyes, squeaking, kangaroohopping with outstretched clutching arms, then
all at once thrusts his lipless face through the fork of his thighs. Synonymous and S. P. He carried it
upstairs, his thumb hooked in the teapot handle. Dublin Bakery Company’s tearoom. From the
high barbacans of the tower two shafts of light fall on the smokepalled
altarstone. On his wise shoulders through the checkerwork of leaves the sun flung
spangles, dancing coins. Yes,
sir. Temple, two lunches. Often thought she was in the dumps till she began to lilt. F. )_ Regularly engaged. Fifteen
millions of barrels of porter. _A Handbook of Astronomy_ (cover, brown leather, detached, 5 plates,
antique letterpress long primer, author’s footnotes nonpareil, marginal
clues brevier, captions small pica). They did right to put
him up over a urinal: meeting of the waters. The vesta in the clergyman’s uplifted hand consumed itself in a long
soft flame and was let fall. F. He provokes my intelligence. —Throw him out and shut the door, the editor said. How flat they look all of a sudden after. Did I write Ballsbridge on the envelope I took to cover when she
disturbed me writing to Martha? Hope it’s not chucked in the dead
letter office. Lollipop. And his Dulcinea? James
Stephens is doing some clever sketches. Full throb. Brothers of the great white lodge always watching to
see if they can help. A nation is the same people living in the same
place. John Henry Menton jerked his head down in acknowledgment. Bargains. Didn’t look back when she was going down the strand. K. What followed this silent action?

Somnolent invocation, less somnolent recognition, incipient excitation,
catechetical interrogation. Somewhere. The
shepherd’s hour: the hour of folding: hour of tryst. Aren’t they
trying to make an _Entente cordiale_ now at Tay Pay’s dinnerparty with
perfidious Albion? Firebrands of Europe and they always were. George Lidwell, suave, solicited, held a lydiahand. Good drop of gin, that was. Nell Gwynn, Mrs Bracegirdle, Maud
Branscombe. What impression of an absent face did Bloom, arrested, silently recall?

The face of her father, the late Major Brian Cooper Tweedy, Royal
Dublin Fusiliers, of Gibraltar and Rehoboth, Dolphin’s Barn. I daresay the soil would be quite fat with corpsemanure, bones, flesh,
nails. O. I am a most finished artist. We are the last. —Those are halfcrowns, man, Corley corrected him. )_ Come, ducky dear, I want a word with you,
darling, just to administer correction. And then laughed more. —What about that leader this evening? professor MacHugh asked, coming
to the editor and laying a firm hand on his shoulder. Not
for nothing was he a butcher’s son, wielding the sledded poleaxe and
spitting in his palms. Their bodies plunge. —Never better. She didn’t want anything. Those
girls, those lovely. )_ You would have a better chance of lighting it
if you held the match nearer. Allimportant question. Beg. Master Dignam walked along Nassau street, shifted the porksteaks to his
other hand. Pity they feel. BLOOM: Night. But begob I was just lowering the heel of the pint when I saw the
citizen getting up to waddle to the door, puffing and blowing with the
dropsy, and he cursing the curse of Cromwell on him, bell, book and
candle in Irish, spitting and spatting out of him and Joe and little
Alf round him like a leprechaun trying to peacify him. Ben Dollard frowned and, making suddenly a chanter’s mouth, gave forth
a deep note. J. Eglintoneyes, quick with pleasure, looked up shybrightly. War! War! The tympanum. After them march gentlemen of the bedchamber, Black Rod,
Deputy Garter, Gold Stick, the master of horse, the lord great
chamberlain, the earl marshal, the high constable carrying the sword of
state, saint Stephen’s iron crown, the chalice and bible. Analogous scenes are occasionally, if not often, met with. )_ Leeolee! _(Warbling. )_
Show me in. Only one lump of sugar in my tea, if you please. Letter from His Grace. —Ay, says Alf. _

Through the hush of air a voice sang to them, low, not rain, not leaves
in murmur, like no voice of strings or reeds or whatdoyoucallthem
dulcimers touching their still ears with words, still hearts of their
each his remembered lives. Wonder how is she feeling in that region. Croak of vast manless moonless womoonless marsh. The movements which work revolutions in the
world are born out of the dreams and visions in a peasant’s heart on
the hillside. And all down the form. —Paddy Dignam dead! says Alf. Healthy perhaps absorb all the. Unclaimed money too. Could do it myself. Hozier’s _History of the Russo-Turkish War_ (brown cloth, 2 volumes,
with gummed label, Garrison Library, Governor’s Parade, Gibraltar, on
verso of cover). Just copy out of paper. Up stage strode Father Cowley. Crickey, I’m about sprung. Must get those old glasses of mine set right. It is cured. O, the big doggybowwowsywowsy!

Wine soaked and softened rolled pith of bread mustard a moment mawkish
cheese. Abbey Theatre! I
smell the pubic sweat of monks. And off with him and out trying to walk straight. Two raincaped watch approach, silent,
vigilant. If
I had only my gold piercer here! And quite easy to milk. LYNCH: Across the world for a wife. First thing strikes anybody. They fetched high
prices too, Moisel told me. Broken heart. See it in your face. Conceited fellow with his waxedup moustache. —Yes, by Jove, Mr Dedalus said. What rider is like him? Mount him on the camel or the boisterous
buffalo the victory in a hack canter is still his. Having a wet. Over and over had she told herself that
as she mused by the dying embers in a brown study without the lamp
because she hated two lights or oftentimes gazing out of the window
dreamily by the hour at the rain falling on the rusty bucket, thinking. —What was it? Martin Cunningham asked, as they went on up the
staircase. Interrogated as to whether life there resembled our experience in the
flesh he stated that he had heard from more favoured beings now in the
spirit that their abodes were equipped with every modern home comfort
such as tālāfānā, ālāvātār, hātākāldā, wātāklāsāt and that the highest
adepts were steeped in waves of volupcy of the very purest nature. Mark
me now. Flavin, C. God
becomes man becomes fish becomes barnacle goose becomes featherbed
mountain. )_

PAT: _(Advances with a tilted dish of spillspilling gravy. Smiled: creamfruit smell. Too much of this. )_ He insulted my lady
friend. Separation. I know, I know. Vivisect him. C. Press the button and the bird will squeak. in Midw. Ah, wanted to go upstairs, curl up in a ball on the bed. Jackson and Cecil Hicks, costumes by Mrs and Miss Whelan
under the personal supervision of Mrs Michael Gunn, ballets by Jessie
Noir, harlequinade by Thomas Otto) and sung by Nelly Bouverist,
principal girl?

Firstly, oscillation between events of imperial and of local interest,
the anticipated diamond jubilee of Queen Victoria (born 1820, acceded
1837) and the posticipated opening of the new municipal fish market:
secondly, apprehension of opposition from extreme circles on the
questions of the respective visits of Their Royal Highnesses the duke
and duchess of York (real) and of His Majesty King Brian Boru
(imaginary): thirdly, a conflict between professional etiquette and
professional emulation concerning the recent erections of the Grand
Lyric Hall on Burgh Quay and the Theatre Royal in Hawkins street:
fourthly, distraction resultant from compassion for Nelly Bouverist’s
non-intellectual, non-political, non-topical expression of countenance
and concupiscence caused by Nelly Bouverist’s revelations of white
articles of non-intellectual, non-political, non-topical underclothing
while she (Nelly Bouverist) was in the articles: fifthly, the
difficulties of the selection of appropriate music and humorous
allusions from _Everybody’s Book of Jokes_ (1000 pages and a laugh in
every one): sixthly, the rhymes, homophonous and cacophonous,
associated with the names of the new lord mayor, Daniel Tallon, the new
high sheriff, Thomas Pile and the new solicitorgeneral, Dunbar Plunket
Barton. Must be abstemious to sing. And Richie Goulding drank his Power and Leopold Bloom his cider drank,
Lidwell his Guinness, second gentleman said they would partake of two
more tankards if she did not mind. Yum. Magdalen asylum. )_

STEPHEN: _(With exaggerated politeness. )_

BLOOM: _(Gently. Sunlight
through the slats of the Venetian blind. Old men’s
dogs usually are. —I would go a step farther, Mr Bloom insinuated. )_ O, it must be like the scent of
geraniums and lovely peaches! O, he simply idolises every bit of her!
Stuck together! Covered with kisses!

LYDIA DOUCE: _(Her mouth opening. —No, Simon, Father Cowley turned. )_

BLOOM: My subjects! We hereby nominate our faithful charger Copula
Felix hereditary Grand Vizier and announce that we have this day
repudiated our former spouse and have bestowed our royal hand upon the
princess Selene, the splendour of night. _ But they had so many worries in life, so many
cares, poor creatures. Tap. He’ll
find himself on the horns of a dilemma if he meddles with a bull that’s
Irish, says he. —Sit down or by the law Harry I’ll knock you down. Old Mother Hubbard went to the cupboard. Yes, sir. No gratitude in people. How did they take leave, one of the other, in separation?

Standing perpendicular at the same door and on different sides of its
base, the lines of their valedictory arms, meeting at any point and
forming any angle less than the sum of two right angles. Four umbrellas, her raincloak. An animated altercation (in which
all took part) ensued among the F. An Irishman saved his life on
the ramparts of Vienna. BLOOM: No, but. Mister Knowall. He put his boot on what he had spat, wiping his sole along
it, and bent, showing a rawskinned crown, scantily haired. Princes at meat they raised and drank, Power and cider. While the kettle is boiling. Jarlath of Tuam
and S. O’Molloy took the tissues from Lenehan’s hand and read them,
blowing them apart gently, without comment. —Well, says J. Bit of clay from the
holy land. J. Gob, he’s a prudent member and no mistake. _Zut! Nom de Dieu!_

—Of course I’m a Britisher, Haines’s voice said, and I feel as one. Pleasant evenings we had then. I. Brains on their
sleeve like the statue in Glasnevin. O and that lotion mustn’t forget. RUDOLPH: Once! Mud head to foot. Where were they now? Neither knew. They tell me he’s round there in
Dillon’s. I don’t remember anything. —Which of the two, Stephen asked, would have banished me from his
commonwealth?

Unsheathe your dagger definitions. Full voice of perfume
of what perfume does your lilactrees. Another gone. Wonder is poor Citron still in Saint Kevin’s parade. Mr Dedalus struck, whizzed, lit, puffed savoury puff after

—Irish? I don’t know, faith. Must go out there
some first Saturday of the month. Taim in mo shagart_. 15. There’s a little watch up there on the roof of the
bank to test those glasses by. But
I bought it. —The European family, says J. Because if
they didn’t believe they’d go straight to heaven when they die they’d
try to live better, at least so I think. And the whole world was full of that sort of
thing. I detest that: so tasteless. We let them come in. They mistrust
what you tell them. Yes. Our howitzers and camel swivel guns played on his lines with
telling effect. If it’s healthy it’s from the mother. )_

RUMBOLD: _(To the recorder with sinister familiarity. Under Tom Kernan’s ginhot words the accompanist wove music slow. —That’s how it’s worked, says the citizen. Reminds me of strawberries and cream. Somnambulist. Turma circumdet. Just there. My ghost will haunt you after
death. Write something on it:
page. Take some slips from the counter going out. The sweets of sin. Poor dear papa, a widower, was a regular barometer from it. Bloom shakes his head in mute mirthful reply. The cold domed room of the tower waits. Who knows what they’re always flying for. Lubber. They
all fall to the ground. Long ago I was a king
     Now I do this kind of thing
     On the wing, on the wing!
     Bing!

_(He rushes against the mauve shade, flapping noisily. It seems history is to blame. Look at the
woebegone walk of him. _(She traces lines on his hand. Off he sails with a scapular or a medal on him for luck. Which various features of the constellations were in turn considered?

The various colours significant of various degrees of vitality (white,
yellow, crimson, vermilion, cinnabar): their degrees of brilliancy:
their magnitudes revealed up to and including the 7th: their positions:
the waggoner’s star: Walsingham way: the chariot of David: the annular
cinctures of Saturn: the condensation of spiral nebulae into suns: the
interdependent gyrations of double suns: the independent synchronous
discoveries of Galileo, Simon Marius, Piazzi, Le Verrier, Herschel,
Galle: the systematisations attempted by Bode and Kepler of cubes of
distances and squares of times of revolution: the almost infinite
compressibility of hirsute comets and their vast elliptical egressive
and reentrant orbits from perihelion to aphelion: the sidereal origin
of meteoric stones: the Libyan floods on Mars about the period of the
birth of the younger astroscopist: the annual recurrence of meteoric
showers about the period of the feast of S. So, Spain. P. Dullthudding Guinness’s barrels. *    *    *


Mr Bloom turned over idly pages of _The Awful Disclosures of Maria
Monk_, then of Aristotle’s _Masterpiece. He reads. Solemn as Troy. It was a wonder that there was not a tramline in such an
important thoroughfare. Shipahoy of course
had his own say to say. No more desire. —I won’t listen, she cried. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. And I heard the voice
of that Egyptian highpriest. Broth of a boy. With who?

—With Dignam, says Alf. Factory
lasses with fancy clothes toss redhot Yorkshire baraabombs. )_ God fuck old
Bennett. A big coffin it was, and high and
heavylooking. What?

He looked on them from his drawling eye. Mrs Breen nodded. Sure
thing. And then he starts with his jawbreakers about phenomenon and science
and this phenomenon and the other phenomenon. Wait. And now he’ll play his ball no more
     For he lies among the dead. )_ Here, bugger off Harry. *    *    *


The lacquey by the door of Dillon’s auctionrooms shook his handbell
twice again and viewed himself in the chalked mirror of the cabinet. _—Requiescat!_ Stephen prayed. Because she wished to goodness they’d take the snottynosed twins and
their babby home to the mischief out of that so that was why she just
gave a gentle hint about its being late. Tap. Would she buy it too,
calling the items from a slip in her hand? Chapped: washingsoda. Boylan, eyed, eyed. Shadow of my mind. —_Ex quibus_, Stephen mumbled in a noncommittal accent, their two or
four eyes conversing, _Christus_ or Bloom his name is or after all any
other, _secundum carnem_. Begins and ends morally. )_

SWENY: Three and a penny, please. They drank cool stout. —Maybe so, says Joe. )_

PRIVATE COMPTON: _(Jerks his finger. Green
apples. She blinked up out of her avid shameclosing eyes, mewing plaintively
and long, showing him her milkwhite teeth. He now will leave me. It is as painful perhaps to be awakened from a vision as to be
born. _(High on Ben Howth through rhododendrons a nannygoat passes,
plumpuddered, buttytailed, dropping currants. I should like to have it. And yet and yet! That strained look on her face! A gnawing sorrow is
there all the time. Pretty thick that was certainly. A score of years are blown away. )_ Whisper. But if Master Tommy was headstrong Master Jacky
was selfwilled too and, true to the maxim that every little Irishman’s
house is his castle, he fell upon his hated rival and to such purpose
that the wouldbe assailant came to grief and (alas to relate!) the
coveted castle too. The cat walked
stiffly round a leg of the table with tail on high. Your epitaph is written. )_ Sister, yes. —_And I from thee_. Tiptop, thanks. _

Stephen, who was trying his dead best to yawn if he could, suffering
from lassitude generally, replied:

—To fill the ear of a cow elephant. And I
schschschschschsch. Some girl. Immortelles. )_ Master! Mistress! Mantamer!

_(He lifts his arms. That
three shillings you can keep. What perfume does your wife use? I could go home still: tram: something
I forgot. Return and see. Edward the Seventh lifts his bucket
graciously in acknowledgment. A region where grey
twilight ever descends, never falls on wide sagegreen pasturefields,
shedding her dusk, scattering a perennial dew of stars. Thou sawest thy America, thy lifetask, and didst charge to
cover like the transpontine bison. Cantrell and Cochrane’s Ginger Ale (Aromatic). Never know
who will touch you dead. I’ll tap him too. THE NAVVY: _(Gripping the two redcoats, staggers forward with them. His next proceeding?

From an open box on the majolicatopped table he extracted a black
diminutive cone, one inch in height, placed it on its circular base on
a small tin plate, placed his candlestick on the right corner of the
mantelpiece, produced from his waistcoat a folded page of prospectus
(illustrated) entitled Agendath Netaim, unfolded the same, examined it
superficially, rolled it into a thin cylinder, ignited it in the
candleflame, applied it when ignited to the apex of the cone till the
latter reached the stage of rutilance, placed the cylinder in the basin
of the candlestick disposing its unconsumed part in such a manner as to
facilitate total combustion. The cracked lookingglass of a servant. This downy skin, these soft muscles, this tender flesh. )_ So he’s gone. _Moutonner,_ the French
said. Mr Dollard. With Joseph the joiner I cannot agree. —Then our friend’s writ is not worth the paper it’s printed on, Ben
Dollard said. The first, said she (and here my
pretty philosopher, as I handed her to her tilbury, to fix my
attention, gently tipped with her tongue the outer chamber of my ear),
the first is a bath. BELLA: _(Admiringly. The banknotes, blast them. It
was exactly seventeen o’clock. )_

BLOOM: _(Uncloaks impressively, revealing obesity, unrolls a paper and
reads solemnly. Look at the young scamps
after him. What about English wateringplaces? Brighton,
Margate. Prime sausage. —Good Christ! says he. I
won’t go. into the bargain and the
greatest danger of all was who you got drunk with though, touching the
much vexed question of stimulants, he relished a glass of choice old
wine in season as both nourishing and bloodmaking and possessing
aperient virtues (notably a good burgundy which he was a staunch
believer in) still never beyond a certain point where he invariably
drew the line as it simply led to trouble all round to say nothing of
your being at the tender mercy of others practically. Where’s the buck and Namby Amby? Skunked? Leg bail. Under the mistletoe. —It’s on the march, says the citizen. Piano again. )_ Think what it means. List! List! O List!


My flesh hears him: creeping, hears. And still the voices sang in supplication to the Virgin most powerful,
Virgin most merciful. Better now of course than long ago. —Ay, ay, says Joe. Best place for an ad to catch a woman’s eye
on a mirror. Mr Bloom moved nimbly aside. J. Who was he?

—How do you do? Martin Cunningham said, raising his palm to his brow in
salute. B. The wife was playing the piano in
the coffee palace on Saturdays for a very trifling consideration and
who was it gave me the wheeze she was doing the other business? Do you
remember? We had to search all Holles street to find them till the chap
in Keogh’s gave us the number. No. What preceding series?

Assuming Mulvey to be the first term of his series, Penrose, Bartell
d’Arcy, professor Goodwin, Julius Mastiansky, John Henry Menton, Father
Bernard Corrigan, a farmer at the Royal Dublin Society’s Horse Show,
Maggot O’Reilly, Matthew Dillon, Valentine Blake Dillon (Lord Mayor of
Dublin), Christopher Callinan, Lenehan, an Italian organgrinder, an
unknown gentleman in the Gaiety Theatre, Benjamin Dollard, Simon
Dedalus, Andrew (Pisser) Burke, Joseph Cuffe, Wisdom Hely, Alderman
John Hooper, Dr Francis Brady, Father Sebastian of Mount Argus, a
bootblack at the General Post Office, Hugh E. His voice is heard mellow from afar,
merciful male, melodious:)_

     Shall carry my heart to thee,
     Shall carry my heart to thee,
     And the breath of the balmy night
     Shall carry my heart to thee!

 _(The trick doorhandle turns. From the left arrives a jingling hackney car. Young hopeful will be
christened Mortimer Edward after the influential third cousin of Mr
Purefoy in the Treasury Remembrancer’s office, Dublin Castle. Stupefies them first. The tea was drawn. Peep! Who’s in the. Bald Pat who is bothered mitred the napkins. She held it to her own. ) Salvi facti sunt. Like our small talk. Hot mockturtle vapour and steam of newbaked jampuffs rolypoly poured
out from Harrison’s. Now!

_(He knots the lace. Bad art. —Down with his aunt Sally, I suppose, Mr Dedalus said, the Goulding
faction, the drunken little costdrawer and Crissie, papa’s little lump
of dung, the wise child that knows her own father. _—Throwaway,_ says he, at twenty to one. From under a wideleaved
sombrero the figure regards him with evil eye. Mrs Norman W. Seventy beds keeps he there teeming
mothers are wont that they lie for to thole and bring forth bairns hale
so God’s angel to Mary quoth. Lean, he lay back. What? Any God’s quantity of cocked hats
and boleros and trunkhose. Nannetti’s father hawked those things about, wheedling at
doors as I. But
even if—what then? Would it make a very great difference? From
everything in the least indelicate her finebred nature instinctively
recoiled. I’m inconsequent. Contemporaneously,
a heated argument having arisen between Mr Delegate Madden and Mr
Candidate Lynch regarding the juridical and theological dilemma created
in the event of one Siamese twin predeceasing the other, the difficulty
by mutual consent was referred to Mr Canvasser Bloom for instant
submittal to Mr Coadjutor Deacon Dedalus. )_

DR MADDEN: Hypsospadia is also marked. And me with a soldier friend. —_Raimeis_, says the citizen. Bloom tightens and loosens his grip on the ashplant. )_ For the Caliph. _

A dumb belch of hunger cleft his speech. He was a crotchety old fellow in the primary stage of drink. s. One whiff of that and you’re a goner. Terrible, terrible! A thousand casualties. Night hours then: black with
daggers and eyemasks. Whitehatted
_chef_ like a rabbi. On the hands down!

BLOOM: _(Her eyes upturned in the sign of admiration, closing, yaps. )_ O, I know what you’re hinting at now!

BELLO: What else are you good for, an impotent thing like you? _(He
stoops and, peering, pokes with his fan rudely under the fat suet folds
of Bloom’s haunches. He’s
an excellent brother. We know nothing but that he lived and suffered. Not think. ’Tis, sure. I can easily. The other, Costello that
is, hearing this talk asked was it poetry or a tale. SECOND WATCH: All right, Mr Kelleher. How was a glyphic comparison of the phonic symbols of both languages
made in substantiation of the oral comparison?

By juxtaposition. It was a thousand pities a young fellow, blessed with an allowance of
brains as his neighbour obviously was, should waste his valuable time
with profligate women who might present him with a nice dose to last
him his lifetime. Tanks you. And
then an old fellow starts blowing into his bagpipes and all the gougers
shuffling their feet to the tune the old cow died of. Quite
right. In the course of the argument cannonballs, scimitars,
boomerangs, blunderbusses, stinkpots, meatchoppers, umbrellas,
catapults, knuckledusters, sandbags, lumps of pig iron were resorted to
and blows were freely exchanged. Fleet was
his foot on the bracken: Patrick of the beamy brow. That letter to father provincial. Yes. Jingle jaunty. S. —Afraid of the chickens she is, he said mockingly. No pruningknife. You have eaten all we left, I suppose. Six and a half per cent dividend. Of course nobody being acquainted
with his movements even before there was absolutely no clue as to his
whereabouts which were decidedly of the _Alice, where art thou_ order
even prior to his starting to go under several aliases such as Fox and
Stewart so the remark which emanated from friend cabby might be within
the bounds of possibility. So Thursday sixteenth June Patk. —Repeat that dose, says Joe. I
vear thee beest a gert vool. _(Bloom creeps under the sofa and peers out through the fringe. The sins of your past are rising against you. Young life, her lips that gave me pouting. They wheeled lower. How do you
do, Mr Crimmins? First rate, sir. I was surrounded by the stale smut of clubmen,
stories to disturb callow youth, ads for transparencies, truedup dice
and bustpads, proprietary articles and why wear a truss with
testimonial from ruptured gentleman. We
mustn’t be led away by words, by sounds of words. As a matter of fact I just wanted to meet
Martin Cunningham, don’t you see, about this insurance of poor
Dignam’s. James M’Cann’s hobby to
row me o’er the ferry. The
car and horse back slowly, awkwardly, and turn. O, that’s the style. Hates sewing. Boudin find the captain’s age, his eyes went aimlessly
over the respective captions which came under his special province the
allembracing give us this day our daily press. No followers allowed. ?

KITTY: _(From the sofa. Dignam’s voice, muffled, is
heard baying under ground:_ Dignam’s dead and gone below. —On which the sun never rises, says Joe. —The crown had no evidence, Mr Power said. I could have got seven to one
against Saint Amant a fortnight before. And by the offensively smelling vitriol
works did he not pass night after night by loving courting couples to
see if and what and how much he could see? Did he not lie in bed, the
gross boar, gloating over a nauseous fragment of wellused toilet paper
presented to him by a nasty harlot, stimulated by gingerbread and a
postal order?

BELLO: _(Whistles loudly. Do tell me what kind of perfume does your wife use. Nannetti, M. White missionary too
salty. Freer in air. Cure for a red nose. As not so calamitous as a cataclysmic annihilation of the
planet in consequence of a collision with a dark sun. Then I will tell you all. Just a little wild oats, you understand. It is mine. So he told Terry to bring some water for the dog and, gob, you could
hear him lapping it up a mile off. Deaf beetle he is. Come out,
Kinch. —Let him stay, Stephen said. Devil a sweet fear! There’s
a jew for you! All for number one. Leather. Second gentleman paid. _(Plausibly. A silver florin. All desire to
see you bring forth the work you meditate, to acclaim you
Stephaneforos. A cold seawind blows from his druid mouth. _ O, will he? I
liked Colum’s _Drover. How’s that for a national press, eh, my
brown son! How’s that for Martin Murphy, the Bantry jobber?

—Ah, well, says Joe, handing round the boose. And the traveller Leopold went into the castle for
to rest him for a space being sore of limb after many marches
environing in divers lands and sometime venery. )_

THE RECORDER: I will put an end to this white slave traffic and rid
Dublin of this odious pest. Damn like him. )_ Only for what happened him. In
Rodot’s Yvonne and Madeleine newmake their tumbled beauties, shattering
with gold teeth _chaussons_ of pastry, their mouths yellowed with the
_pus_ of _flan bréton_. Columcille and S. The
bungholes sprang open and a huge dull flood leaked out, flowing
together, winding through mudflats all over the level land, a lazy
pooling swirl of liquor bearing along wideleaved flowers of its froth. Not a red at me
this week gone. Bloom with his
sceptre strikes down poppies. You know why? Palm oil. What different problems presented themselves to each concerning the
invisible audible collateral organ of the other?

To Bloom: the problems of irritability, tumescence, rigidity,
reactivity, dimension, sanitariness, pilosity. )
Verfluchte Goim!_ He had a father, forty fathers. Glorious, pious and immortal memory. Two barefoot urchins, sucking long liquorice laces, halted near him,
gaping at his stump with their yellowslobbered mouths. Gaming at Daly’s. Take off that white
hat. Know what I mean. J. We’re in the
archdiocese here. The faithful hermetists await the light, ripe for chelaship,
ringroundabout him. —He can kiss my royal Irish arse, Myles Crawford cried loudly over his
shoulder. )_ What ho, parson!

CISSY CAFFREY: _(Her voice soaring higher. This was so happy a conceit that it renewed the storm of mirth
and threw the whole room into the most violent agitations of delight. _ where he
proves that the sonnets were written by a Willie Hughes, a man all
hues. Could meet one Sunday after the rosary. What comforted his misapprehension?

That as a competent keyless citizen he had proceeded energetically from
the unknown to the known through the incertitude of the void. Cissy Caffrey’s voice, still young, sings
shrill from a lane. As God made them he matched
them. She was a womanly woman not like other flighty
girls unfeminine he had known, those cyclists showing off what they
hadn’t got and she just yearned to know all, to forgive all if she
could make him fall in love with her, make him forget the memory of the
past. And
there he is now, he added, the same fellow, pulling the skin with his
fingers, some special knack evidently, and he laughing at a yarn. Have you
the? Horn. Salt in the Ormond damp. He bet them what they liked. _(He
fumbles again in his pocket and draws out a handful of coins. Bloombella
Kittylynch Florryzoe jujuby women. —Will he not see reborn in her, with the memory of his own youth added,
another image?

Do you know what you are talking about? Love, yes. Begin to be forgotten. —They say we are to have a literary surprise, the quaker librarian
said, friendly and earnest. Yes. Eye out for other fellow always. Children
always want to throw things in the sea. She’s singing, yes. Go on, Talbot. —Which will? gagged sweetly Buck Mulligan. You don’t?

Did not: no, no: believe: Lidlyd. Give us a bloody chance. Mr Cunningham’s letter. BELLA: _(Angrily. Thursday. _(He thrusts out a figged fist and foul cigar. Rumbold, master barber, in a bloodcoloured jerkin and tanner’s
apron, a rope coiled over his shoulder, mounts the block. And so
time wags on: but father Cronion has dealt lightly here. —And the wife with typhoid fever! Scandalous! Leave the court
immediately, sir. The earth trembles. I’ll go. Eponymous and S. Can you see?

—Yes, yes. Gerald Molloy, D. —Breadsoda is very good, Davy Byrne said. Isn’t the sea what Algy calls it: a great sweet
mother? The snotgreen sea. Was it goodbye? No. Clean to see:
the gloss of her sleek hide, the white button under the butt of her
tail, the green flashing eyes. Jewgreek is greekjew. Rrpr. That’s twice I forgot to take slips from the library
counter. Mind you don’t get one bang
on the ear. who did?. Hi! Spit in your own eye,
boss! Mummer’s wire. —And long John Fanning is here too, John Wyse Nolan said, as large as
life. All over. He peeped quickly inside the leather headband. —You seen queer sights, don’t be talking, put in a jarvey. On Northumberland and Lansdowne
roads His Excellency acknowledged punctually salutes from rare male
walkers, the salute of two small schoolboys at the garden gate of the
house said to have been admired by the late queen when visiting the
Irish capital with her husband, the prince consort, in 1849 and the
salute of Almidano Artifoni’s sturdy trousers swallowed by a closing
door. Walk, walk, walk. The holy father. My eyes, I know, shone divinely as I watched Captain Slogger
Dennehy of the Inniskillings win the final chukkar on his darling cob
_Centaur. My own shirts I turned. SECOND WATCH: Night, Mr Kelleher. Saw a pool near her foot. _

—And so say all of us, says Jack. Dimsey, wife of David Dimsey, late of the admiralty: Miller,
Tottenham, aged eightyfive: Welsh, June 12, at 35 Canning street,
Liverpool, Isabella Helen. I hate those buggers. The sweets of sin. Muscular christian. —Are you bad in the eyes? the sympathetic personage like the townclerk
queried. Why did Bloom experience a sentiment of remorse?

Because in immature impatience he had treated with disrespect certain
beliefs and practices. Must answer. Mr Lenehan, yes. The masters of the Mediterranean are fellaheen
today. Inishboffin. Know me come eat
with me. as to whether the eighth
or the ninth of March was the correct date of the birth of Ireland’s
patron saint. If life was always like that. SAD


Cleverest fellow at the junior bar he used to be. First I’ll
have a go at you myself. —In the pink, Mr Bloom said gaily. org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. —Spaniards, for instance, he continued, passionate temperaments like
that, impetuous as Old Nick, are given to taking the law into their own
hands and give you your quietus doublequick with those poignards they
carry in the abdomen. What would render such return irrational?

An unsatisfactory equation between an exodus and return in time through
reversible space and an exodus and return in space through irreversible
time. Useless to go back. Then nay no I have an inkling. B. My
client is an infant, a poor foreign immigrant who started scratch as a
stowaway and is now trying to turn an honest penny. Pointed cuffs. How quickly he does that
job. He held unfurled his _Freeman. —Libel action, says he, for ten thousand pounds. —Bad luck to the jewman that made them, Ben Dollard said. No room. John Howard Parnell translated a white bishop quietly and his grey claw
went up again to his forehead whereat it rested. Lynch lifts the curled
catterpillar on his wand. She had no water, it
appears, in her hold. )_ Kosher. Working overtime but her luck’s turned today. Now silent air. My boots were creaking I remember now. Mirus bazaar. )_ Aphrodisiac? Tansy and pennyroyal. Homerule sun rising up in the northwest. —Ah, sure, my dancing days are done, Ben. Vyfor you no me tell? Vel, I ses,
if that aint a sheeny nachez, vel, I vil get misha mishinnah. Tap. Never know whose thoughts you’re
chewing. A snake coils her, fang in’s kiss. )_ No kid. )_ I will, by the God above me. —Now, my miss, he said. )_ Police!

STEPHEN: _(Ecstatically, to Cissy Caffrey. Have you a swaggerroot?

BLOOM: _(As before. It’s all written down: he has to do it. Flimsy China silks. _ Lovely!

Catamite. FIRST WATCH: _(Takes out his notebook. Then he girded up his trousers, braced and buttoned himself. Solemn. Is that the eldest boy in front?

—Yes, Ned Lambert said, with the wife’s brother. Ugly: no woman thinks she is. Well, it’s seven mornings a pint at
twopence is seven twos is a shilling and twopence over and these three
mornings a quart at fourpence is three quarts is a shilling. Enemy? Avuncular’s got
my timepiece. , several of whom were bleeding
profusely. He looked around. Spurgeon went to heaven 4 a. And he wrote a book in which he took away the palm of
beauty from Argive Helen and handed it to poor Penelope. )_ You’re not game, in fact. Remind you of the voice like the photograph
reminds you of the face. Woman and man that is. —Gave it to them on a hot plate, Myles Crawford said, the whole bloody
history. Ferguson, I think I caught. Yes, I saw him, Mr Bloom said. Theodore’s
cousin in Dublin Castle. Yes, I remember. Encore, enclap,
said, cried, clapped all, Ben Dollard, Lydia Douce, George Lidwell,
Pat, Mina Kennedy, two gentlemen with two tankards, Cowley, first gent
with tank and bronze Miss Douce and gold Miss Mina. A shock of red
hair he has sticking out of him behind like a furzebush! Wait for nine
months, my lad! Holy ginger, it’s kicking and coughing up and down in
her guts already! That makes you wild, don’t it? Touches the spot? _(He
spits in contempt. Palpably he was one of his
hangerson but for the matter of that it was merely a question of one
preying on his nextdoor neighbour all round, in every deep, so to put
it, a deeper depth and for the matter of that if the man in the street
chanced to be in the dock himself penal servitude with or without the
option of a fine would be a very _rara avis_ altogether. I didn’t want it
to die. If you want a little more. There are
marked symptoms of chronic exhibitionism. _There was a right royal old nigger. The name too. M’Coy, friend of Lyons, Hoppy Holohan,
maninthestreet, othermaninthestreet, Footballboots, pugnosed driver,
rich protestant lady, Davy Byrne, Mrs Ellen M’Guinness, Mrs Joe
Gallaher, George Lidwell, Jimmy Henry on corns, Superintendent Laracy,
Father Cowley, Crofton out of the Collector-general’s, Dan Dawson,
dental surgeon Bloom with tweezers, Mrs Bob Doran, Mrs Kennefick, Mrs
Wyse Nolan, John Wyse Nolan,
handsomemarriedwomanrubbedagainstwidebehindinClonskea tram, the
bookseller of_ Sweets of Sin, _Miss Dubedatandshedidbedad, Mesdames
Gerald and Stanislaus Moran of Roebuck, the managing clerk of
Drimmie’s, Wetherup, colonel Hayes, Mastiansky, Citron, Penrose, Aaron
Figatner, Moses Herzog, Michael E Geraghty, Inspector Troy, Mrs
Galbraith, the constable off Eccles street corner, old doctor Brady
with stethoscope, the mystery man on the beach, a retriever, Mrs Miriam
Dandrade and all her lovers. The unfair sex. O’Molloy:

—Incipient jigs. And if he was alive all
the time? Whew! By jingo, that would be awful! No, no: he is dead, of
course. —Cockburn. Woa!

—Pretty countryfolk had few chattels then, John Eglinton observed, as
they have still if our peasant plays are true to type. Mr Dedalus, twisting his nose, frowned downward
and said:

—Unless I’m greatly mistaken. When coopfattened their livers
reach an elephantine size. O!

But easily she seized her prey and led it low in triumph. On her stow
he ere was living with dear wife and lovesome daughter that then over
land and seafloor nine years had long outwandered. Will o’
the wisp. _Il est irlandais. Hands moving. Just compare for instance those
others. Only a mother and deadborn child ever buried in the one
coffin. Dear,
O dear! All that long business about that brought us out of the land of
Egypt and into the house of bondage _alleluia. Destiny. A voice within the tower called loudly:

—Are you up there, Mulligan?

—I’m coming, Buck Mulligan answered. Good afternoon, Mr Lambert. BLOOM: _(Barefoot, pigeonbreasted, in lascar’s vest and trousers,
apologetic toes turned in, opens his tiny mole’s eyes and looks about
him dazedly, passing a slow hand across his forehead. He turned away from the others, who
probably… and spoke nearer to, so as the others… in case they…

—Jews, he softly imparted in an aside in Stephen’s ear, are accused of
ruining. Bosses the show. Pawning his gold watch in Cummins of Francis street where
no-one would know him in the private office when I was there with
Pisser releasing his boots out of the pop. Endless, would it be mine, form of my form? Who watches me here?
Who ever anywhere will read these written words? Signs on a white
field. Still, I don’t know. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www. He halted. To attendance on
your wife. A plasterer’s bucket. O’MOLLOY: _(Almost voicelessly. Horn of a bull, hoof of a horse, smile of a Saxon. Where I come in. And now? Sad about her
lame of course but must be on your guard not to feel too much pity. Phlegmy coughs shook the air of the bookshop, bulging out the dingy
curtains. Two eleven. E. Airs romped round him, nipping and eager airs. But then why don’t all
women menstruate at the same time with the same moon, I mean? Depends
on the time they were born I suppose. Don’t let see. Saint Patrick converted him to
Christianity. Wonderful eyes they were,
superbly expressive, but could you trust them? People were so queer. All uncovered again for a few instants. Mr Bloom gazed across the road at the outsider drawn up before the door
of the Grosvenor. and
T. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. While he waited in Temple bar M’Coy dodged a banana peel with gentle
pushes of his toe from the path to the gutter. Where is he now? Beggar somewhere. His tongue clacked in
compassion. Here, Pat, return. Flat Dublin voices bawled in his head. _ Wonder where that rat is by now. The Providential. MRS BREEN: _(Eagerly. Master Brunny Lynam ran across the road and put Father Conmee’s letter
to father provincial into the mouth of the bright red letterbox. —Hello, Jack, is that yourself? Ned Lambert said, raising in salute his
pliant lath among the flickering arches. —Ay, says Joe. )_ Embrace me tight, dear. After an instructive discourse by
the chairman, a magnificent oration eloquently and forcibly expressed,
a most interesting and instructive discussion of the usual high
standard of excellence ensued as to the desirability of the
revivability of the ancient games and sports of our ancient Panceltic
forefathers. )_ And he shall carry
the sins of the people to Azazel, the spirit which is in the
wilderness, and to Lilith, the nighthag. Human eyes. They can’t play it
here. _(Prolonged applause. Knows whatever note you play. A lifetime in a night. Stephen with hat ashplant frogsplits
in middle highkicks with skykicking mouth shut hand clasp part under
thigh. BELLA: _(Frowns. Ought to be tough from exercise. )_ O Sacred
Heart of Jesus, have mercy on him! Save him from hell, O Divine Sacred
Heart!

STEPHEN: No! No! No! Break my spirit, all of you, if you can! I’ll
bring you all to heel!

THE MOTHER: _(In the agony of her deathrattle. ) Leopoldi autem generatio. It is interesting
because, as he pertinently remarks, we are all born in the same way but
we all die in different ways. They believed you
could be changed into a tree from grief. )_ Here. I have
it. I don’t think
you knew him or perhaps you did, though. —_Why?_ I said. Then if one thing
stopped the whole ghesabo would stop bit by bit. Cousin. The
playhouse sausage filled Gilbert’s soul. —We shall see you tonight, John Eglinton said. Buck Mulligan, walking forward again, raised his hands. P. Shannon and all the boatclub swells never took his eyes off her. —Indeed yes, Mr Bloom agreed. Screened under ferns she laughed warmfolded. O, yes: a very great success. And baby did his level best to say it for he was very intelligent for
eleven months everyone said and big for his age and the picture of
health, a perfect little bunch of love, and he would certainly turn out
to be something great, they said. p: up. He points
an elongated finger at Bloom. Then, with the
water running off him, he got into an old smock and skirt that had
belonged to his grandmother and bought a grammar of the bulls’ language
to study but he could never learn a word of it except the first
personal pronoun which he copied out big and got off by heart and if
ever he went out for a walk he filled his pockets with chalk to write
it upon what took his fancy, the side of a rock or a teahouse table or
a bale of cotton or a corkfloat. ; the very rev. )_ You
are my guests. WILLIAM, ARCHBISHOP OF ARMAGH: _(In purple stock and shovel hat. Curious. Nearer the heart? Padding themselves
out if fat is in fashion. Two multiplied by two
divided by half is twice one. )_ O Poldy,
Poldy, you are a poor old stick in the mud! Go and see life. Three weeks. Brats’ clamour. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment. Couldn’t hear what the band played. I ought
to report him. U. Still, the flowers are more poetical. —Hello, Jack. Watching is his nose
pointed is his jaw sinking are the soles of his feet yellow. —Right: thanks, Hynes said moving off. I hope
you will come round tonight. I
gave you mementos, smart emerald garters far above your station. )_ Jocular. The Reverend Mr Hugh C
Haines Love M. J. A
plumtree in a meatpot, registered trade mark. The book, fallen, sprawled against the bulge of
the orangekeyed chamberpot. Feefawfum. Flanagan, C. 4. Bloom there for a languor he had but was now better, he having
dreamed tonight a strange fancy of his dame Mrs Moll with red slippers
on in a pair of Turkey trunks which is thought by those in ken to be
for a change and Mistress Purefoy there, that got in through pleading
her belly, and now on the stools, poor body, two days past her term,
the midwives sore put to it and can’t deliver, she queasy for a bowl of
riceslop that is a shrewd drier up of the insides and her breath very
heavy more than good and should be a bullyboy from the knocks, they
say, but God give her soon issue. —Yes, of course, he said, as they went on again. You’re
your father’s son. J. His feet marched in sudden proud rhythm over the sand furrows, along by
the boulders of the south wall. Never on the spot when wanted but in quiet
parts of the city, Pembroke road for example, the guardians of the law
were well in evidence, the obvious reason being they were paid to
protect the upper classes. Nebulous obscurity
occupies space. Mahak makar a bak. It passed darkly. My client, an innately bashful man, would be the last man in the
world to do anything ungentlemanly which injured modesty could object
to or cast a stone at a girl who took the wrong turning when some
dastard, responsible for her condition, had worked his own sweet will
on her. Because those spice islands, Cinghalese this
morning, smell them leagues off. One or two? Necessity is
that in virtue of which it is impossible that one can be otherwise. J. And these, the stoneheaps of dead builders, a warren
of weasel rats. _Mon
fils_, soldier of France. Mr Bloom in the meanwhile kept dodging about in the vicinity of the
cobblestones near the brazier of coke in front of the corporation
watchman’s sentrybox who evidently a glutton for work, it struck him,
was having a quiet forty winks for all intents and purposes on his own
private account while Dublin slept. I couldn’t hear the other things he
said but I saw his tongue and his teeth trying to say it better. E. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. Believes his
own lies. And the hands of a bride and of a bridegroom, noble to noble,
were impalmed by Don John Conmee. Unpaid Pat too. Henceforth you are unmanned and mine in earnest, a
thing under the yoke. Father Conmee walked down Great Charles street and glanced at the
shutup free church on his left. Must get some from Tom
Kernan. Cries of sellers in the streets. Clean tables,
flowers, mitres of napkins. Well?

—There was a battle, sir. The plump shadowed face and
sullen oval jowl recalled a prelate, patron of arts in the middle ages. Warily, Malachi whispered, preserve a druid silence. Born with a
silver knife in his mouth. In those waxworks in Henry street I myself saw some
Aztecs, as they are called, sitting bowlegged, they couldn’t straighten
their legs if you paid them because the muscles here, you see, he
proceeded, indicating on his companion the brief outline of the sinews
or whatever you like to call them behind the right knee, were utterly
powerless from sitting that way so long cramped up, being adored as
gods. Gordon Bennett. He’s a proboer. Mr
J. Tap. Denis Florence M’Carthy’s _Poetical Works_ (copper beechleaf bookmark
at p. No sound. Girl friends at school, arms round each other’s
necks or with ten fingers locked, kissing and whispering secrets about
nothing in the convent garden. Me nantee saltee. Columba and S. —As for his family, Stephen said, his mother’s name lives in the forest
of Arden. They wash and tub and scrub. As broad as it’s long. _America,_ I said quietly, just like that. )_ I shall sit on your ottoman saddleback
every morning after my thumping good breakfast of Matterson’s fat
hamrashers and a bottle of Guinness’s porter. Anyhow they passed the sentrybox with stones, brazier etc. Gerty was dressed simply but with the instinctive taste of a votary of
Dame Fashion for she felt that there was just a might that he might be
out. Keep it up for ever never grow a day older technically. And don’t they rake in the money too? Bequests
also: to the P. Grace Darling. It was an
ancient and a sad matron of a sedate look and christian walking, in
habit dun beseeming her megrims and wrinkled visage, nor did her
hortative want of it effect for incontinently Punch Costello was of
them all embraided and they reclaimed the churl with civil rudeness
some and shaked him with menace of blandishments others whiles they all
chode with him, a murrain seize the dolt, what a devil he would be at,
thou chuff, thou puny, thou got in peasestraw, thou losel, thou
chitterling, thou spawn of a rebel, thou dykedropt, thou abortion thou,
to shut up his drunken drool out of that like a curse of God ape, the
good sir Leopold that had for his cognisance the flower of quiet,
margerain gentle, advising also the time’s occasion as most sacred and
most worthy to be most sacred. With brains, sir. DR MULLIGAN: _(In motor jerkin, green motorgoggles on his brow. Suit for damages by legal influence or simulation of assault
with evidence of injuries sustained (selfinflicted), not impossibly. _(Reuben J Antichrist, wandering jew, a clutching hand open on his
spine, stumps forward. A whacking
fine whip, said Lenehan, is W. Again. Stephen, taking his ashplant from its leaningplace, followed them out
and, as they went down the ladder, pulled to the slow iron door and
locked it. Nine tenths of them
all could be caged or trained, nothing beyond the art of man barring
the bees. Holocaust. That’s how the
Russians prays. With all his belongings on show. Love. Prickly beards they like. Beefeaters reply, winding clarions of welcome. He handed the card through the brass grill. He touched to fair miss Kennedy a rim of his slanted straw. That was to say he had heard the name of. Bright’s bright eye. All that are in favour
say ay, Lenehan announced. —Seymour’s back in town, the young man said, grasping again his spur of
rock. )_ I’m a Bloomite and I glory in
it. Wore out his
wife: now sings. Thirsty fox. Tap with it: they do. Raping the women and girls and
flogging the natives on the belly to squeeze all the red rubber they
can out of them. )_ Him makee velly muchee fine
night. Twice nought makes one. In a rosery of Fetter lane of Gerard, herbalist,
he walks, greyedauburn. What a lark. He added in a preacher’s tone:

—For this, O dearly beloved, is the genuine Christine: body and soul
and blood and ouns. THE JURORS: _(All their heads lowered in assent. Tut, tut! cries Le
Fécondateur, tripping in, my friend Monsieur Moore, that most
accomplished traveller (I have just cracked a half bottle _avec lui_ in
a circle of the best wits of the town), is my authority that in Cape
Horn, _ventre biche_, they have a rain that will wet through any, even
the stoutest cloak. Idly writing. O just wait till I see Molly! _(Slily. Who’s getting it up?

Mrs Marion Bloom. —Sweat of my brow, says Joe. So distinct. )_ You would have preferred the
fighting parson who founded the protestant error. _ Let me there. Cyr
and S. Cold
statues: quiet there. )_ Holy smoke! You little know what’s in store
for you. I feel so sad today. —They were nature’s gentlemen, J. the woods. He fitted his black
hat gently on his left knee and, holding its brim, bent over piously. The
unfortunate yahoos believe it. You kept them for the last, didn’t you?

—In asking you to remember those two noble kinsmen nuncle Richie and
nuncle Edmund, Stephen answered, I feel I am asking too much perhaps. And
also it was a marvel to see in that castle how by magic they make a
compost out of fecund wheatkidneys out of Chaldee that by aid of
certain angry spirits that they do in to it swells up wondrously like
to a vast mountain. The roses draw apart, disclose a
sepulchre of the gold of kings and their mouldering bones. Looking for a private detective. U. From his forehead arise starkly the Mosaic
ramshorns. —I bought it from the other cart for a penny, Dilly said, laughing
nervously. Just close my eyes a
moment. I’ll dig my spurs in him up to the rowel. M. )_ Deciduously!

THE NYMPH: _(Her features hardening, gropes in the folds of her
habit. PRIVATE COMPTON: Eh, Harry, give him a kick in the knackers. Just a holiday. For answer Mr Mulligan, in a gale of laughter at his smalls,
smote himself bravely below the diaphragm, exclaiming with an admirable
droll mimic of Mother Grogan (the most excellent creature of her sex
though ’tis pity she’s a trollop): There’s a belly that never bore a
bastard. )_ The nosering, the pliers, the bastinado, the
hanging hook, the knout I’ll make you kiss while the flutes play like
the Nubian slave of old. What’ll it be, Ned?

—Half one, says Ned. Kissed, she kissed me. Looks she too not other now? Ward
of watching in Horne’s house has told its tale in that washedout
pallor. THE HONOURABLE MRS MERVYN TALBOYS: Very much so! I’ll make it hot for
you. I seen a crocodile bite the fluke of an
anchor same as I chew that quid. A new purchase at some monster sale for
which a gull has been mulcted. But you want a perfume too. Kiss in the dark and never tell. But we have it on high authority that a man’s
worst enemies shall be those of his own house and family. What proofs did Bloom adduce to prove that his tendency was towards
applied, rather than towards pure, science?

Certain possible inventions of which he had cogitated when reclining in
a state of supine repletion to aid digestion, stimulated by his
appreciation of the importance of inventions now common but once
revolutionary, for example, the aeronautic parachute, the reflecting
telescope, the spiral corkscrew, the safety pin, the mineral water
siphon, the canal lock with winch and sluice, the suction pump. A light wind passed his brow,
fanning softly his fair uncombed hair and stirring silver points of
anxiety in his eyes. BLOOM: _(Behind his hand. Thieves rob the slain. E. He was overborne in a cornfield first (ryefield, I should say)
and he will never be a victor in his own eyes after nor play
victoriously the game of laugh and lie down. Nun Trinkst Du die süsse Milch des Euters_. And he started laughing. Both are masked with
Matthew Arnold’s face. In the shady wood. Soon be a
woman. In their horseplay with Moll the romp to
find the buck flea in her breeches they will deface the little statue
you carried home in the rain for art for art’s sake. Have a gramophone in every grave or keep it in
the house. He might be mad. A. Drink water scented
with fennel, sherbet. I had it examined by a botanical expert and elicited the
information that it was a blossom of the homegrown potato plant
purloined from a forcingcase of the model farm. Very. He’s well up in history, faith. What? Dignam
dead?

—What about Dignam? says Bob Doran. Approaching, disparate, at relaxed walking pace they crossed both the
circus before George’s church diametrically, the chord in any circle
being less than the arc which it subtends. A drenching of that violence, he tells me, _sans
blague_, has sent more than one luckless fellow in good earnest
posthaste to another world. Also, without being actually positive, it struck him a great field was
to be opened up in the line of opening up new routes to keep pace with
the times _apropos_ of the Fishguard-Rosslare route which, it was
mooted, was once more on the _tapis_ in the circumlocution departments
with the usual quantity of red tape and dillydallying of effete
fogeydom and dunderheads generally. Just say in the most natural
tone: when I was in Paris; _boul’ Mich’_, I used to. He folded it
under his armpit, went to the door and opened it. Driving before it a
loose drift of rubble, fanshoals of fishes, silly shells. M’Coy nodded, picking at his moustache stubble. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. ): Honourable members are already in
possession of the evidence produced before a committee of the whole
house. Young woman enters. Miss Mina Kennedy brought near her lips to ear of tankard one. _
It is susceptible of nodes or modes as far apart as hyperphrygian and
mixolydian and of texts so divergent as priests haihooping round
David’s that is Circe’s or what am I saying Ceres’ altar and David’s
tip from the stable to his chief bassoonist about the alrightness of
his almightiness. Cold joints galore and mince pies. He saved the
situa. )_ Magmagnificence!

BELLO: Down! _(He taps her on the shoulder with his fan. The redbearded sailor who had his weather eye on the newcomers boarded
Stephen, whom he had singled out for attention in particular, squarely
by asking:

—And what might your name be?

Just in the nick of time Mr Bloom touched his companion’s boot but
Stephen, apparently disregarding the warm pressure from an unexpected
quarter, answered:

—Dedalus. The housesteward of the
amalgamated cats’ and dogs’ home was in attendance to convey these
vessels when replenished to that beneficent institution. But his boywomen are the women of a boy. He’s right. He sprinkled it through his fingers ringwise from the chipped eggcup. Lady Dudley was walking home
through the park to see all the trees that were blown down by that
cyclone last year and thought she’d buy a view of Dublin. )_ Rubber goods. )_ Josie Powell that was,
prettiest deb in Dublin. Her wet lips tittered:

—He’s killed looking back. They like it
because no-one can hear. He told me when
they cut him down after the drop it was standing up in their faces like
a poker. Say half a
crown. Life might be so. E. _

He tugged swiftly at Stephen’s ashplant in farewell and, running
forward to a brow of the cliff, fluttered his hands at his sides like
fins or wings of one about to rise in the air, and chanted:

_—Goodbye, now, goodbye! Write down all I said
And tell Tom, Dick and Harry I rose from the dead. Fursey and S. What is that?

—What, sir?

—Again, sir. _Pater, ait. What opera is like a railwayline?

—Opera? Mr O’Madden Burke’s sphinx face reriddled. For Bloom. How dare
you, sir, come up before me and ask me to make an order! A poor
hardworking industrious man! I dismiss the case. LYNCH: All one and the same God to her. All
kinds of places are good for ads. THE FAN: _(Folding together, rests against her left eardrop. There was a
time I was as good as the next fellow anyhow. He is nowhere: but an Edmund
and a Richard are recorded in the works of sweet William. Bad luck. )_

TOM ROCHFORD: _(A hand to his breastbone, bows. Look
slippery. Unfortunate people to die like that, unprepared. Behind him he heard Buck Mulligan club with his heavy
bathtowel the leader shoots of ferns or grasses. )_

ZOE: _(To Florry. Hard by the block
stood the grim figure of the executioner, his visage being concealed in
a tengallon pot with two circular perforated apertures through which
his eyes glowered furiously. We have certainly. —Fortune, he wished, lifting his bubbled ale. A swarthy boy opened a book and propped it nimbly under the breastwork
of his satchel. His eyes open wide in vision stared sternly across the sunbeam in which
he halted. Big Benben. Thou art all their
daddies, Theodore. Now
if you were trying to do that for a week on end you couldn’t. )_ I understand your
point of view though I have no king myself for the moment. Too late now. None of your spoilt beauties, Flora MacFlimsy sort,
was Cissy Caffrey. This is for sovereigns. A whirring whistle: goal. Spice of pleasure. —True men like you men. An ingenious suggestion is that
thrown out by Mr V. Like foul flowerwater. Just changes when you’re on the track of the secret. I always thought I’d marry a lord or a rich
gentleman coming with a private yacht. Charming, seasmiling and unanswering Lydia on Lidwell smiled. Onions. With it an abode of
bliss. Being afraid to marry on earth
     They masturbated for all they were worth. Come out and live in the graveyard. The sailor stared at him heavily from a pair of drowsy baggy eyes,
rather bunged up from excessive use of boose, preferably good old
Hollands and water. Outside the Adelphi in London waited all the afternoon to get in. What do you think of that, citizen? _The Sluagh na h-Eireann_. )_ Your boy’s thinking of you. Sticking them all
over the place. )_ Beware! _(She raises her blackened withered right arm slowly
towards Stephen’s breast with outstretched finger. In
Serpentine avenue Beelzebub showed me her, a fubsy widow. I know it myself. Was the clown Bloom’s son?

No. That’s why she won’t. Shaking sleep out of it. SECOND WATCH: That’s all right, sir. —I should like to know, he said, which brother you. SUFFICIENT FOR THE DAY. To give you the idea you are eating
rumpsteak. Apart. He laid her card and letter on the twill bedspread near the curve of
her knees. —Where is that? the professor asked. No sawdust
there. STEPHEN: _(Nervous, friendly, pulls himself up. Listen to
this, will you?

And he starts reading out one. Near the
end, remembering king David and the Sunamite, he shared his bed with
Athos, faithful after death. God,
he gave him one last puck in the wind, Queensberry rules and all, made
him puke what he never ate. Safe in the arms of kingdom come. Must carry a paper goblet next time I
go to the trottingmatches. —The world believes that Shakespeare made a mistake, he said, and got
out of it as quickly and as best he could. What other infantile memories had he of her?

15 June 1889. J. )_ Illustrious Bloom!
Successor to my famous brother!

BLOOM: _(Embraces John Howard Parnell. That book by the
Belgian jesuit, _Le Nombre des Élus,_ seemed to Father Conmee a
reasonable plea. Important work. The priest was rinsing out the chalice: then he tossed off the dregs
smartly. Bob Cowley’s outstretched talons griped the black deepsounding chords. He
urged me (Stating that he felt it his mission in life to urge me. In the
shadow of the glen he cooees for them. Then know. They wouldn’t play. Turnedup trousers. Him Satan fleers,
Mocker:
            And therefore he left out her name
From the first draft but he did not leave out
The presents for his granddaughter, for his daughters,
For his sister, for his old cronies in Stratford
And in London. Rattling good place round there for pigs’ feet. I feel a strong weakness. I know. Diddlediddle dumdum
     Diddlediddle. Turkish. Buck Mulligan suddenly linked his arm in Stephen’s and walked with him
round the tower, his razor and mirror clacking in the pocket where he
had thrust them. —The aunt thinks you killed your mother, he said. Want to be a bull for her. Hm. The clock on the mantelpiece in the priest’s house cooed where Canon
O’Hanlon and Father Conroy and the reverend John Hughes S. J. VIRAG: _(Severely, his nose hardhumped, his side eye winking. Two men stood at the verge of the cliff, watching: businessman,
boatman. _(He corantos by. Thomas Aquinas and S. Entertainments. You’re like the rest of
them, are you? An insolent pack of little bitches since your poor
mother died. Marion Calpensis and
the Blessed Sister Teresa of the Child Jesus and S. Paradise of pretenders then and now. )_ Leopardstown. Wolstan: and Ignatius his children: and the confraternity of the
christian brothers led by the reverend brother Edmund Ignatius Rice. No. _(Profoundly. That was in eightyone, sixth of May, time of
the invincibles, murder in the Phoenix park, before you were born, I
suppose. Where’s
my pipe, by the way?

He wandered back to the bar to the lost chord pipe. Certainly in every public work
which in it anything of gravity contains preparation should be with
importance commensurate and therefore a plan was by them adopted
(whether by having preconsidered or as the maturation of experience it
is difficult in being said which the discrepant opinions of subsequent
inquirers are not up to the present congrued to render manifest)
whereby maternity was so far from all accident possibility removed that
whatever care the patient in that allhardest of woman hour chiefly
required and not solely for the copiously opulent but also for her who
not being sufficiently moneyed scarcely and often not even scarcely
could subsist valiantly and for an inconsiderable emolument was
provided. The
spider pitches her web in the solitude. Anarchist. Fro, to: to, fro: over the
polished knob (she knows his eyes, my eyes, her eyes) her thumb and
finger passed in pity: passed, reposed and, gently touching, then slid
so smoothly, slowly down, a cool firm white enamel baton protruding
through their sliding ring. What? Malign such an one, the amiable
Miss Callan, who is the lustre of her own sex and the astonishment of
ours? And at an instant the most momentous that can befall a puny child
of clay? Perish the thought! I shudder to think of the future of a race
where the seeds of such malice have been sown and where no right
reverence is rendered to mother and maid in house of Horne. Couldn’t they invent something
automatic so that the wheel itself much handier? Well but that fellow
would lose his job then? Well but then another fellow would get a job
making the new invention?

Antient concert rooms. They
used to believe you could be changed into an animal or a tree, for
instance. )_

BLOOM: _(Elbowing through the crowd, plucks Stephen’s sleeve
vigorously. Saucebox. _(Richie Goulding, three ladies’ hats pinned on his head, appears
weighted to one side by the black legal bag of Collis and Ward on which
a skull and crossbones are painted in white limewash. Not so young now. —Woke me up in the night, she said. Where is he now?

—M’Intosh, Hynes said scribbling. —Yes, that’s the man, says J. Fiacre and S. His curling shaven lips
laughed and the edges of his white glittering teeth. STEPHEN: _(Laughs emptily. )_

THE NEWSBOYS: Stop press edition. And by the door deaf
Pat, bald Pat, tipped Pat, listened. They give two threepenny bits to the gentleman at the turnstile
and begin to waddle slowly up the winding staircase, grunting,
encouraging each other, afraid of the dark, panting, one asking the
other have you the brawn, praising God and the Blessed Virgin,
threatening to come down, peeping at the airslits. )_ Say, how would it
be, governor, if I was to bash in your jaw?

STEPHEN: _(Looks up to the sky. Tell us. Still no-one can give what
he hasn’t got. I seen Russia. O’Molloy he came forth slowly into Mary’s
abbey where draymen were loading floats with sacks of carob and palmnut
meal, O’Connor, Wexford. There’s nothing wrong with him except at
night. Her eyes on me to strike me down. Feel. Purse. I could kiss
you. One tablespoonful of
honey will attract friend Bruin more than half a dozen barrels of first
choice malt vinegar. The
rosy buds all gone brown and spread out blobs and on the hills nought
but dry flag and faggots that would catch at first fire. No families themselves to feed. She had no intention of being at their beck and
call. It sat there, dull and squat,
its spout stuck out. Tell about places you have
been, strange customs. Rich sound. Stark
ruth of man his errand that him lone led till that house. The bulldog of
Aquin, with whom no word shall be impossible, refutes him. Pat served, uncovered dishes. At once! And you,
Jacky, for shame to throw poor Tommy in the dirty sand. O rocks!

All gone. ?

_(Figures wind serpenting in slow woodland pattern around the
treestems, cooeeing. Do the grand. She ran with long gandery strides it was a wonder she didn’t rip
up her skirt at the side that was too tight on her because there was a
lot of the tomboy about Cissy Caffrey and she was a forward piece
whenever she thought she had a good opportunity to show off and just
because she was a good runner she ran like that so that he could see
all the end of her petticoat running and her skinny shanks up as far as
possible. Kino’s
     11/—
     Trousers

Good idea that. Rattle his bones. So they started talking about capital punishment and of course Bloom
comes out with the why and the wherefore and all the codology of the
business and the old dog smelling him all the time I’m told those
jewies does have a sort of a queer odour coming off them for dogs about
I don’t know what all deterrent effect and so forth and so on. So he was, faith. Kendal Bushe or I mean Seymour Bushe. Rows of cast. Interesting quarter. She will
drown me with her, eyes and hair. Mrs
Marion. O’er ryehigh blue. Bronze by a weary gold, anear, afar, they listened. Picking up the letters. M. Conductor’s legs too, bagstrousers, jiggedy jiggedy. Time surely would
scatter all. Consort not even a king. How much did I spend? O, a few shillings. His head disappeared and reappeared. )_ This
is the flower in question. Heenan and Sayers was only
a bloody fool to it. Miss Kennedy unplugged her ears to hear, to speak: but said, but prayed
again:

—Don’t let me think of him or I’ll expire. Underline _imposs. _

—_Di che?_ Almidano Artifoni said. Must nail that ad of Keyes’s. His eyes misty with unshed tears Master Tommy came at her call for
their big sister’s word was law with the twins. Martin Cunningham nudged Mr Power. )_ Married, I see. I have a most particular
reason. —Come on, come on, Ben Dollard called. Containing the new addresses of
all the cuckolds in Dublin. —The poor bugger’s tool that’s being hanged, says Alf. In what common study did their mutual reflections merge?

The increasing simplification traceable from the Egyptian epigraphic
hieroglyphs to the Greek and Roman alphabets and the anticipation of
modern stenography and telegraphic code in the cuneiform inscriptions
(Semitic) and the virgular quinquecostate ogham writing (Celtic). U. )

STEPHEN: _(Abruptly. Seed near free poun on un a spell ago a said war hisn. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others. )_ Bit light in the head. Gabriel Conroy’s brother is curate. Musing. He sits tinily on the pianostool and lifts
and beats handless sticks of arms on the keyboard, nodding with
damsel’s grace, his bowknot bobbing. Gob, Jack
made him toe the line. All want to be on
good terms with him. He got it this morning. Put me on to
Edenville. You needn’t try to hide, I says to
him. Enemas too I have administered. At the lacefringe of
the tide he halted with stiff forehoofs, seawardpointed ears. VIRAG: _(Not unpleasantly. _(He cries. A. I thought Alf would split. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below. He drank and strayed away. Safer to eat from his
three hands. Gulfer of souls, engulfer. —Thank you, sir. )_ O, excuse!

ZOE: _(Promptly. They would hear what counsel had to say
in his stirring address to the grand jury. A shaven space
of lawn one soft May evening, the wellremembered grove of lilacs at
Roundtown, purple and white, fragrant slender spectators of the game
but with much real interest in the pellets as they run slowly forward
over the sward or collide and stop, one by its fellow, with a brief
alert shock. Yes. Those two sluts that night in
the Coombe, linked together in the rain. —Robbed, says he. His (Bloom’s) logical conclusion, having weighed the matter and
allowing for possible error?

That it was not a heaventree, not a heavengrot, not a heavenbeast, not
a heavenman. Meh. She thinks. I have. That’ll be
all right. The sun was nearing the steeple of George’s church. His look went from brooder’s beard to carper’s skull, to remind, to
chide them not unkindly, then to the baldpink lollard costard,
guiltless though maligned. For them too history was a tale like any other
too often heard, their land a pawnshop. It fills me full. And you who wrest old images from the burial earth? The brainsick words
of sophists: Antisthenes. Eat and be merry for tomorrow. I was
never one of your bright ones, he added with a half laugh. —He’s in with a lowdown crowd, Mr Dedalus snarled. To keep it up. He went in, bowing his head
under the low lintel. P. But both are joys. Tara street. The eye, like that. Seated all day at the organ. —A great blow to the poor wife, Mr Kernan added. Bloom stood up. Silverpowdered
olivetrees. I cannot away with them. He stood at Fleet street crossing. BOYLAN: _(Tosses him sixpence. )
Tout le monde en avant! Révérence! Tout le monde en place!_

_(The prelude ceases. All could see how hard it was for him to be reminded of his promise and
of his recent loss. However, as a matter of fact though, the preposterous surmise about him
being in some description of a doldrums or other or mesmerised which
was entirely due to a misconception of the shallowest character, was
not the case at all. Edward Guelph-Wettin!

—And what do you think, says Joe, of the holy boys, the priests and
bishops of Ireland doing up his room in Maynooth in His Satanic
Majesty’s racing colours and sticking up pictures of all the horses his
jockeys rode. —Let’s hear the time, he said. Near ate the tin and all, hungry
bloody mongrel. Repugnant wretch! I insist on knowing. Bad opinion of me he’ll have. See. A star I see. —Cracked lookingglass of a servant! Tell that to the oxy chap
downstairs and touch him for a guinea. cold night before. He turned his body half round, shut up his right eye completely. Pass round the consolation. So we turned into Barney Kiernan’s and there, sure enough, was the
citizen up in the corner having a great confab with himself and that
bloody mangy mongrel, Garryowen, and he waiting for what the sky would
drop in the way of drink. Above the crossblind of the Ormond hotel, gold by
bronze, Miss Kennedy’s head by Miss Douce’s head watched and admired. We fall. , Rufus Isaacs, K. Marion. Because life is a stream. Chips, picking chips off one of his
rocky thumbnails. Wouldn’t eat her cakes or speak or look. Mohammed cut a piece out of his mantle not to wake her. _ Esperanto. )_ Here wet the deck and
wipe it round!

A BIDDER: A florin. Mrs
Bandmann Palmer. Now what were those two at? J. F. T. He dried the page with a sheet of thin blottingpaper and carried his
copybook back to his bench. STEPHEN: Did I? When?

BLOOM: _(To the redcoats. Bleibtreustrasse 34,
Berlin, W. Excuse. Breakfast is ready. The young man raised
his cap abruptly: the young woman abruptly bent and with slow care
detached from her light skirt a clinging twig. 8 October, and consummated on the same date with
female issue born 15 June 1889, having been anticipatorily consummated
on the 10 September of the same year and complete carnal intercourse,
with ejaculation of semen within the natural female organ, having last
taken place 5 weeks previous, viz. Must. Save it they can’t. She had loved his weak watery
blood drained from her own. D. O,
my foot’s tickling. And there
came against the place as they stood a young learningknight yclept
Dixon. Ah soap there I yes. Irish nights entertainment. )_ Can give best references. Lord knows where they
are gone. Weak squeaks of laughter are heard, weaker. Jannock. Get out before the end. Terrific
explosions they are. Hundreds. —Ah then indeed, he said, poor little Paddy wouldn’t grudge us a laugh. His hands on her hair,
for instance. Gelindo risolve di non amare S. Beware of the steamroller. He’s gone from us. A fellow writes that calls himself
_Disgusted One_. )_ Werf those eykes to footboden, big
grand porcos of johnyellows todos covered of gravy!

BLOOM: _(To Stephen. A pack of
bloodhounds, led by Hornblower of Trinity brandishing a dogwhip in
tallyho cap and an old pair of grey trousers, follows from far, picking
up the scent, nearer, baying, panting, at fault, breaking away,
throwing their tongues, biting his heels, leaping at his tail. )_ What’s yours is mine and what’s mine is my own. Dust. )_ Tell me the word, mother, if you know now. )_ And if it were your own son in Oxford?
_(Warningly. Jilted beauty. Bulldog on the premises. She’s a. _(Almidano Artifoni holds out a batonroll of music with vigorous
moustachework. And now, why? So the scene between the pair of
them, the licensee of the place rumoured to be or have been Fitzharris,
the famous invincible, and the other, obviously bogus, reminded him
forcibly as being on all fours with the confidence trick, supposing,
that is, it was prearranged as the lookeron, a student of the human
soul if anything, the others seeing least of the game. But perhaps he has wife and family
waiting, waiting Patty come home. A dry rush. With woman steps she followed: the
ruffian and his strolling mort. )_ You may. Dignam used to be in his office. )_

LYNCH: _(Laughing, slaps Kitty behind twice. Bloom. She dare not bear the sunnygolden babe of day. Agenbite of inwit. Homerule sun setting in the southeast. Juno, she cried, I am undone. A
cave. Time, gents! Who wander through the
world. You’re very simple, I don’t think. —Circumcised? says Joe. —Mr Boylan! Hello! That gentleman from _Sport_ was in looking for you. Shut your eyes, gents. —Mallarmé, don’t you know, he said, has written those wonderful prose
poems Stephen MacKenna used to read to me in Paris. After
traipsing about in the fog they found the grave sure enough. )_

BELLO: _(Squats with a grunt on Bloom’s upturned face, puffing
cigarsmoke, nursing a fat leg. Haines was the third brother. Sir Frederick Falkiner going into the freemasons’ hall. Or even hear of it. Dead meat trade. PADDY LEONARD: What am I to do about my rates and taxes?

BLOOM: Pay them, my friend. Mr Bloom, chapfallen, drew behind a
few paces so as not to overhear. Boom, C P M’Coy,—M’Intosh and several others_. —Ay, Skin-the-Goat amusingly added, he was and a cottonball one. On. STEPHEN: _(Brings the match near his eye. Hosts at Mullaghmast and Tara of the kings. Nice enough in
its way: for a little ballad. Molly, lieutenant Mulvey that kissed her under the
Moorish wall beside the gardens. J. He flung his wooden pen away. I want puce gloves and green
boots. How I found the Lord. —Is Edy Boardman your sweetheart? Cissy queried. —Yes, says J. —Do you understand what he says? Stephen asked her. Through
yerd our lord, Amen. Tomorrow is killing day. Has his own ideas of justice in the recorder’s court. DR PUNCH COSTELLO: The _fetor judaicus_ is most perceptible. —Tickled the old ones too, Myles Crawford said, if the God Almighty’s
truth was known. That girl
passing the Stewart institution, head in the air. —I mean, of course, the other hastened to affirm, work in the widest
possible sense. Women faint. Wait, wait. The hideous old wretch! That
night in the Antient Concert Rooms. The quick touch. Bread, the staff of
life, earn your bread, O tell me where is fancy bread, at Rourke’s the
baker’s it is said. Literally astounded at this piece of intelligence Bloom reflected. BEAUFOY: You low cad! You ought to be ducked in the horsepond, you
rotter! _(To the court. But then I have it in my left hand. Then think
of the competition. For
instance there was the case of O’Callaghan, for one, the halfcrazy
faddist, respectably connected though of inadequate means, with his mad
vagaries among whose other gay doings when rotto and making himself a
nuisance to everybody all round he was in the habit of ostentatiously
sporting in public a suit of brown paper (a fact). Insure against
street accident too. But it was
scarcely professional etiquette so. Paronymous
and S. BEN DOLLARD: When twins arrive?

BLOOM: Father (pater, dad) starts thinking. Whoever embarked on a
policy of the sort, he said, and ventilated the matter thoroughly would
confer a lasting boon on everybody concerned. Fingers. by inhaling the bacteria which lurk
in dust. Shandygaff?

—Hello, Bloom, Nosey Flynn said from his nook. Saw something in me. Y. Loam, what is this
that is? The hens in the next garden: their droppings are very good top
dressing. You love a certain person. Love, Rathcoffey. In a cave of the
dark middle earth. I’m swelled after that
cabbage. Morning, noon
and twilight hours retreat before them. Salivation is insufficient, the patellar reflex intermittent. )_ May the good God bless him!

_(The rams’ horns sound for silence. Wait a second. Of all his
kings Richard is the only king unshielded by Shakespeare’s reverence,
the angel of the world. )_ There. Why not? All a prejudice. _(The very reverend Canon O’Hanlon in cloth of gold cope elevates and
exposes a marble timepiece. J. O but the dark evening in the Appian way I
nearly spoke to Mrs Clinch O thinking she was. He
shows all that he is wearing green socks. A crazy queen, old and jealous. If you
deny that in the fifth scene of _Hamlet_ he has branded her with infamy
tell me why there is no mention of her during the thirtyfour years
between the day she married him and the day she buried him. No ends really because it’s round. Must eat. In confirmation of which statement he extricated from an inside pocket
and handed to his neighbour a not very cleanlooking folded document. Dicers and thimbleriggers we hurried by after the hoofs,
the vying caps and jackets and past the meatfaced woman, a butcher’s
dame, nuzzling thirstily her clove of orange. —_Each graceful look_. Close on ninety they say. She was
pronounced beautiful by all who knew her though, as folks often said,
she was more a Giltrap than a MacDowell. Pull down the blind, love. You prayed to the devil in Serpentine avenue
that the fubsy widow in front might lift her clothes still more from
the wet street. Blue dusk,
nightfall, deep blue night. She’s my own true wife I haven’t seen for seven years
now, sailing about. How are you?

—Just keeping alive, M’Coy said. 1. By them, the man
with my voice and my eyes and a ghostwoman with ashes on her breath. He hurried on eagerly towards the _Freeman’s Journal_. The bag of Goulding, Collis, Ward led Bloom by ryebloom flowered
tables. Murderer’s ground. Body of white
woman, a flute alive. —It is this hour of a day in mid June, Stephen said, begging with a
swift glance their hearing. 1 Pork kidney                      0—0—3
     1 Copy Freeman’s Journal           0—0—1
     1 Bath and Gratification           0—1—6
     Tramfare                           0—0—1
     1 In Memoriam Patrick Dignam       0—5—0
     2 Banbury cakes                    0—0—1
     1 Lunch                            0—0—7
     1 Renewal fee for book             0—1—0
     1 Packet Notepaper and Envelopes   0—0—2
     1 Dinner and Gratification         0—2—0
     1 Postal Order and Stamp           0—2—8
     Tramfare                           0—0—1
     1 Pig’s Foot                       0—0—4
     1 Sheep’s Trotter                  0—0—3
     1 Cake Fry’s Plain Chocolate       0—0—1
     1 Square Soda Bread                0—0—4
     1 Coffee and Bun                   0—0—4
     Loan (Stephen Dedalus) refunded    1—7—0
        BALANCE                         0—16—6
                                        —————
                                        2—19—3
     Credit
                                        £. The good bishop of
Cloyne took the veil of the temple out of his shovel hat: veil of space
with coloured emblems hatched on its field. Go quick. And snares of the
poxfiend. He laid both books aside and glanced at the third: _Tales of the
Ghetto_ by Leopold von Sacher Masoch. When love absorbs. MARION: _(Softly. Remember that till
their dying day. Destitution: the inmate of Old Man’s House (Royal
Hospital), Kilmainham, the inmate of Simpson’s Hospital for reduced but
respectable men permanently disabled by gout or want of sight. O, Mairy
lost the pin of her. Even money _Fair Rebel. MRS THORNTON: _(In nursetender’s gown. At 8. All waited. If a fellow gave them
trouble being lagged they let him have it hot and heavy in the
bridewell. At four she. God, I’m dying for it. —Cochrane and Halliday are on the same side, sir, Stephen said. —About the boatman? Mr Power asked. Their blood is in me, their lusts my waves. I asked him what he thought
of the charge of pederasty brought against the bard. Which end is his head?

After a moment he followed the others in, blinking in the screened
light. She, she, she. What’s
in the wind, I wonder. Red carpet spread. Poor papa’s
daguerreotype atelier he told me of. Justice it means but it’s everybody eating
everyone else. Everyone thought the
world of her for her gentle ways. He raked his throat rudely, puked phlegm on
the floor. Half time, Ben. —Well, in that case, he said, I don’t see why you should expect payment
for it since you don’t believe it yourself. today. Alexander Keyes, tea, wine and spirit merchant. Wouldn’t live in it if they paid me. Dressing in
mother’s clothes. Martin Cunningham,
speaking always, showed often the list at which Jimmy Henry did not
glance. )_ My
dear fellow, not at all! _(He gives his coat to a beggar. Like tearing silk. See things in their forehead perhaps: kind of sense
of volume. He stood beside them beaming, on them first and on his roomy clothes
from points of which Mr Dedalus flicked fluff, saying:

—They were made for a man in his health, Ben, anyhow. Just went as
far as turn back. CORNY KELLEHER: _(Winking. And he doubled up. A thousand pounds reward. )_

THE VOICE OF LYNCH: _(In the thicket. Bloom (Pubb. Y. Now I eat his salt
bread. Light they want. Rugger. —Ba! Mr Deasy cried. But Cissy Caffrey told baby Boardman to look up, look up high at her
finger and she snatched the ball quickly and threw it along the sand
and Tommy after it in full career, having won the day. He’s the backbone of our empire. Say a woman
loses a charm with every pin she takes out. Damned old tub pitching about. Spooks. ZOE: Clap on the back for Zoe. _

BLOOM: Haha. Not he! A boatman got a pole and fished
him out by the slack of the breeches and he was landed up to the father
on the quay more dead than alive. They say we have forgotten it. Cracking curriculum. gutenberg. Buy a bucket or sell your pump. Society
ladies lift their skirts above their heads to protect themselves. He is prematurely bald from selfabuse, perversely idealistic in
consequence, a reformed rake, and has metal teeth. He would. Low. But waiting,
always waiting to be asked and it was leap year too and would soon be
over. And
she saw a long Roman candle going up over the trees, up, up, and, in
the tense hush, they were all breathless with excitement as it went
higher and higher and she had to lean back more and more to look up
after it, high, high, almost out of sight, and her face was suffused
with a divine, an entrancing blush from straining back and he could see
her other things too, nainsook knickers, the fabric that caresses the
skin, better than those other pettiwidth, the green, four and eleven,
on account of being white and she let him and she saw that he saw and
then it went so high it went out of sight a moment and she was
trembling in every limb from being bent so far back that he had a full
view high up above her knee where no-one ever not even on the swing or
wading and she wasn’t ashamed and he wasn’t either to look in that
immodest way like that because he couldn’t resist the sight of the
wondrous revealment half offered like those skirtdancers behaving so
immodest before gentlemen looking and he kept on looking, looking. Solicitors:
Messrs John Henry Menton, 27 Bachelor’s Walk. Pity no time
for massage. With a gentle finger he felt ever so slowly the hair combed back above
his ears. He is gone from mortal haunts: O’Dignam, sun of our morning. Herman-Joseph and the three patrons of
holy youth S. Safe!




[ 9 ]


Urbane, to comfort them, the quaker librarian purred:

—And we have, have we not, those priceless pages of _Wilhelm Meister_. Male impersonator. Where was that? Ah, yes. —Pom! he shouted twice. I must get a drink
after that. Leopold and S. Play
low, pardner. After that, says Mr Vincent, the lord Harry put his
head into a cow’s drinkingtrough in the presence of all his courtiers
and pulling it out again told them all his new name. Night I went down to
the pantry in the kitchen. —That fellow I was with in the Ship last night, said Buck Mulligan,
says you have g. Scandalous! _(He dons the black cap. Or what
they say. J. Wake this time
next year. The cat, having cleaned all her fur, returned to the meatstained paper,
nosed at it and stalked to the door. Lynch gets up, rights his cap and, clasping Kitty’s waist,
adds his head to the group. Nevertheless he sat tight just viewing the slightly
soiled photo creased by opulent curves, none the worse for wear
however, and looked away thoughtfully with the intention of not further
increasing the other’s possible embarrassment while gauging her
symmetry of heaving _embonpoint_. Mark for a softnosed bullet. Suppose she were the?
No. )_ My willpower! Memory! I have sinned! I have
suff. —Dan Dawson’s land Mr Dedalus said. Mere fact of music shows
you are. The laity included P. None of your lean kine,
not much. He wants that key. Other fellow did it: other me. Bloom goes with the poundnote to Stephen. Queer
the whole atmosphere of the. No, not alone. Greek ee. Pay your
money, take your choice. Two Ardilauns. Mr Bloom began to speak with sudden eagerness to his companions’ faces. The imprevidibility of the future: once in the
summer of 1898 he (Bloom) had marked a florin (2/-) with three notches
on the milled edge and tendered it in payment of an account due to and
received by J. And Monsieur Drumont, gentleman journalist. In came
Hoppy. Life with hard labour. I thought he was. PRIVATE CARR: _(Turns and calls. Not theirs: these clothes, this speech, these gestures. Frailty, thy
name is _Sceptre. She writes. Are you off? Yrfmstbyes. I don’t want to
indulge in any because you know the standard works on the subject and
then orthodox as you are. —What is your idea of Hamlet? Haines asked Stephen. Damn bad ad. )_ Me. L. Christfox in leather trews, hiding, a runaway in blighted treeforks,
from hue and cry. —How’s things?

—Tiptop. O, Johnny Lever!
     Johnny Lever, O!

After which effusion the redoubtable specimen duly arrived on the scene
and regaining his seat he sank rather than sat heavily on the form
provided. Debating societies. She was crying in her wretched bed. This way. There’s the widow. He has a strain of it
in his blood. Above sum will
be paid for information leading to his discovery. A hoof scooped
anyway for new foothold after sleep and harness jingled. _(He shakes hands with Private Carr, Private Compton, Stephen, Bloom
and Lynch. )_ We thank you from our heart,
John, for this right royal welcome to green Erin, the promised land of
our common ancestors. BLOOM: _(To the privates, softly. )_ Dignam,
Patrick T, deceased. E. J. Cribbed out of Meredith. Then out she comes. Being a levelheaded individual who could give
points to not a few in point of shrewd observation he also remarked on
his very dilapidated hat and slouchy wearing apparel generally
testifying to a chronic impecuniosity. Two in the back bench
whispered. Ferreol and S. Jesus, there’s
always some bloody clown or other kicking up a bloody murder about
bloody nothing. Make you buy what he wants
to sell. I’m the only one
that knows what you are. Poor jugginses! Damn
all they know or care about anything with their long noses stuck in
nosebags. But, gramercy, what of those Godpossibled souls that we
nightly impossibilise, which is the sin against the Holy Ghost, Very
God, Lord and Giver of Life? For, sirs, he said, our lust is brief. French letter still in my pocketbook. [ 15 ]


_(The Mabbot street entrance of nighttown, before which stretches an
uncobbled tramsiding set with skeleton tracks, red and green
will-o’-the-wisps and danger signals. )_ Hold him now. —What did you buy that for? he asked. Belleisle_ printed on both. A star, a daystar, a firedrake, rose at
his birth. Dead side of the street this. I’m going to plunge five bob on my
own. No. )_ Slapbang!
There he goes again. Bloom, raising a policeman’s whitegloved
hand, blunders stifflegged out of the track. Old now. —Give you good den, my masters, said he with an obsequious bow. It’s a beastly
thing and nothing else. That brought us out of the land of Egypt and into
the house of bondage. The aged sisters draw us into
life: we wail, batten, sport, clip, clasp, sunder, dwindle, die: over
us dead they bend. Thanking her stars she
was passed over. He held his handkerchief ready for the coming. Remember, Erin, thy
generations and thy days of old, how thou settedst little by me and by
my word and broughtedst in a stranger to my gates to commit fornication
in my sight and to wax fat and kick like Jeshurum. Item,
curate, couple of cookies for this child. Felix de Cantalice and S. You would feel a different
man. A player comes on under the shadow, made up in the
castoff mail of a court buck, a wellset man with a bass voice. In and out of sacks, over
barrels, through wirefences, obstacle race. Asking what’s up
now. —What’s the damage? he asked. Dream of the girl you left behind and she will dream of you. Who passed away. Sea
serpent in the royal canal. Mantailored
with selfcovered buttons. An object
falls. Wild sea money. And the old
prostitute of a mother procuring rooms to street couples. Shake hands, brother. )_ Eh? Who’s making love to my sweeties? _(She darts
back to the table. _das Herz. In 1886 occasionally with casual acquaintances and
prospective purchasers on doorsteps, in front parlours, in third class
railway carriages of suburban lines. Cracking his jokes too: warms the cockles of his heart. J. A moonlit nightcall: far, far. Side by side Bloom, profiting by the _contretemps_, with Stephen passed
through the gap of the chains, divided by the upright, and, stepping
over a strand of mire, went across towards Gardiner street lower,
Stephen singing more boldly, but not loudly, the end of the ballad. Prepare
to receive soup. About his
head writhe eels and elvers. Good evening. Be our
safeguard against the wickedness and snares of the devil (may God
restrain him, we humbly pray!): and do thou, O prince of the heavenly
host, by the power of God thrust Satan down to hell and with him those
other wicked spirits who wander through the world for the ruin of
souls. Hair? No. what do you call
him. O’Molloy took out his cigarettecase. Numerous houses are razed to the ground. The reverend T. To
aid gentleman in literary work. Tap. 1. —Some people believe, he said, that we go on living in another body
after death, that we lived before. The spoon of pap in her mouth before she fed them. High colour, of course. No use
humming then. _in nomine Domini,_ in God’s name he
knelt. By Graham Lemon’s pineapple rock, by Elvery’s elephant jingly jogged. He asked me to ask you to ask somebody named
Boylan, a billsticker, to give him a job as a sandwichman. Suppose she did Pygmalion and Galatea what would she say first?
Mortal! Put you in your proper place. We brought them in. Keep young. O, well: she knows how to mind herself. —O, Boylan, she said. Exquisite variations he was now describing on an air _Youth here has
End_ by Jans Pieter Sweelinck, a Dutchman of Amsterdam where the frows
come from. )_ Ah, bosh, man. peepofgold?

Tink cried to bronze in pity. Time enough, understand all the ways of the world. Stop!

Begob he drew his hand and made a swipe and let fly. Putting back his handkerchief
he took out the soap and stowed it away, buttoned, into the hip pocket
of his trousers. _(She crosses the threshold. For they were right witty scholars. Flashing white Kaffir eyes and tusks they
rattle through a breakdown in clumsy clogs, twinging, singing, back to
back, toe heel, heel toe, with smackfatclacking nigger lips. Lenehan and Mr O’Madden
Burke, hearing, turned, beckoned and led on across towards Mooney’s. Rather long to keep them in summer. Father Conmee at the altarrails placed the host with difficulty in the
mouth of the awkward old man who had the shaky head. Moving through the
air high spars of a threemaster, her sails brailed up on the
crosstrees, homing, upstream, silently moving, a silent ship. What ho, she
bumps! The ugly duckling of the party, longcasted and deep in keel. Yellow,
black lace she wore. , L. A patient silhouette waited, listening. )_
I say, Tommy Tittlemouse. )_ Not so loud my name. Tastes fuller this weather
with the chill off. Twentyseven
and six. all the way. Anyhow inspection, medical
inspection, of all eatables seemed to him more than ever necessary
which possibly accounted for the vogue of Dr Tibble’s Vi-Cocoa on
account of the medical analysis involved. Vining held that the prince was a woman. All Irish. Knobby
knuckles for the women. Masses
for the repose of my soul to be said publicly with open doors. Look to our steeds. )_
Great success of laughing. Thrill now. Very encouraging. A school of turlehide whales stranded in hot noon,
spouting, hobbling in the shallows. —I know you did, Dilly answered. One day in the national library we had a discussion. His head vanished but the drone of his descending voice boomed out of
the stairhead:

     And no more turn aside and brood
     Upon love’s bitter mystery
     For Fergus rules the brazen cars. Explain better. Fecking matches from counters to save. I am
sitting on something hard. LYNCH: Three wise virgins. BLOOM: _(Glances sharply at the man. J. —Grand is no name for it, said Buck Mulligan. I want a drink of
water. The year the missus was there. )_

BLOOM: O, I so want to be a mother. Pastille that was fell. Poor girl! That’s why she’s
left on the shelf and the others did a sprint. I’ll show you my likeness one day. In _Martha. Then he was aware of them bodies before of them coloured. On Grattan bridge Lenehan and M’Coy, taking
leave of each other, watched the carriages go by. Perhaps hanging clothes out to dry. Maggy poured yellow thick soup from the kettle into a bowl. _

_—Dice lui, però!_

_—Mezzo. Swill till eleven. A like fate awaits him and the two rages
commingle in a whirlpool. How long shall I continue to close my eyes to disloyalty?
Whetstone!

THE CAP: Bah!

STEPHEN: Here’s another for you. Never again. _(She paws his sleeve, slobbering. He’ll give a renewal for two months, he says. )_ One two tlee:
tlee tlwo tlone. Sociable. Gone. —Yes, what is it? Buck Mulligan answered. Were there testimonials?

Numerous. As good as any other abbot’s
charms, as mumbling Joachim’s. General chorus off for a swill
to wash it down. Devilled crab. By Bachelor’s walk jogjaunty jingled Blazes Boylan, bachelor, in sun in
heat, mare’s glossy rump atrot, with flick of whip, on bounding tyres:
sprawled, warmseated, Boylan impatience, ardentbold. Be a corporal work of mercy if someone would take the life of that
bloody dog. —_Entrez, mes enfants!_ Lenehan cried. )_ No, no, worshipful master, light of love. )_ What ho!

PRIVATE CARR: _(To the navvy. Mina loved that song. Countrybred chawbacon. I couldn’t phone. Buck Mulligan sighed tragically and laid his hand on Stephen’s arm. Dirty Dan the dodger’s son off
Island bridge that sold the same horses twice over to the government to
fight the Boers. Slattery, O. Might work a press pass. Best enters in hairdresser’s attire, shinily
laundered, his locks in curlpapers. Bloom stops, at fault. )_ You met with poor old Ireland and how does she stand?

STEPHEN: How do I stand you? The hat trick! Where’s the third person of
the Blessed Trinity? Soggarth Aroon? The reverend Carrion Crow. Liked me or what? Dress they look
at. Working tooth and jaw. Quietly, unassumingly Rumbold stepped on to the scaffold in faultless
morning dress and wearing his favourite flower, the _Gladiolus
Cruentus_. Father Conmee blessed both gravely and turned a thin page of his
breviary. Miss Douce, miss Lydia, did not believe: miss Kennedy, Mina, did not
believe: George Lidwell, no: miss Dou did not: the first, the first:
gent with the tank: believe, no, no: did not, miss Kenn: Lidlydiawell:
the tank. That priest. Pull. Breathe a prayer, drop a tear, good men, good people. A shadow hangs over all the rest. But as luck would have it the jarvey got the nag’s head round the other
way and off with him. Even the great Napoleon when measurements
were taken next the skin after his death. )_

BLOOM: _(Takes the chocolate. His speckled body ambled ahead of them and then loped
off at a calf’s gallop. What town, good
masters? Mummed in names: A. Gaily miss Douce polished a tumbler, trilling:

—_O, Idolores, queen of the eastern seas!_

—Was Mr Lidwell in today?

In came Lenehan. You which? Bluebags? Who writes? Is it Bloom?

_(Mr Philip Beaufoy, palefaced, stands in the witnessbox, in accurate
morning dress, outbreast pocket with peak of handkerchief showing,
creased lavender trousers and patent boots. A bit sprung. In a dream, silently, she had come to him, her wasted body within its
loose graveclothes giving off an odour of wax and rosewood, her breath,
bent over him with mute secret words, a faint odour of wetted ashes. J. She smiled
on him. Flaw in the
glass, fresh Vartry water. _(To Stephen. Bloom at the halldoor perceives Corny Kelleher who is
about to dismount from the car with two silent lechers. Meyerbeer. Afar, in a reek of lust and squalor, hands are laid on whiteness. Hollandais? Non fromage. C. —I’ve heard of him, Stephen said. The motorman, thrown
forward, pugnosed, on the guidewheel, yells as he slides past over
chains and keys. Ha, give! Take! Throb, a throb, a pulsing proud erect. Fish’s face, bloodless and livid. It passed statelily up the staircase,
steered by an umbrella, a solemn beardframed face. Four buglers
on foot blow a sennet. —Who’s standing? Paddy Leonard asked. LYNCH: Sheet lightning courage. Peering into it. A torrential rain
poured down from the floodgates of the angry heavens upon the bared
heads of the assembled multitude which numbered at the lowest
computation five hundred thousand persons. Another thing he commented on was equipping
soldiers with firearms or sidearms of any description liable to go off
at any time which was tantamount to inciting them against civilians
should by any chance they fall out over anything. I turned around to let him have
the weight of my tongue when who should I see dodging along Stony
Batter only Joe Hynes. —She’s better where she is, he said kindly. Also why washing which seemed
rather vague than not, your washing. He removed his large Henry Clay
decisively and his large fierce eyes scowled intelligently over all
their faces. One hope. Chinese eating eggs
fifty years old, blue and green again. As we march, we march along, march
along. BLOOM: _(Shuddering, shrinking, joins his hands: with hangdog mien. —Is it that whiteeyed kaffir? says the citizen, that never backed a
horse in anger in his life?

—That’s where he’s gone, says Lenehan. Visits him here on quarter days. _Then and not till
then. Abroad?

Ceylon (with spicegardens supplying tea to Thomas Kernan, agent for
Pulbrook, Robertson and Co, 2 Mincing Lane, London, E. )_ Let me on him now. What did Stephen see on raising his gaze to the height of a yard from
the fire towards the opposite wall?

Under a row of five coiled spring housebells a curvilinear rope,
stretched between two holdfasts athwart across the recess beside the
chimney pier, from which hung four smallsized square handkerchiefs
folded unattached consecutively in adjacent rectangles and one pair of
ladies’ grey hose with Lisle suspender tops and feet in their habitual
position clamped by three erect wooden pegs two at their outer
extremities and the third at their point of junction. They murmur together. Keep it a
bit. Touch, touch me. Watching his water. They ought to. Halt. Slowly three times, one after another, from a
full crupper he mired. Eh? I am watching you. Absinthe for me, savvy?
_Caramba!_ Have an eggnog or a prairie oyster. —Hurry up with that tea, she said. Anxiously he glanced in the cone of lamplight where three faces,
lighted, shone. Well, if he couldn’t remember the dayfather’s name that he
sees every day. All against us. He drew forth a handful of copper coins, nervously. Adderly and W. Still some might ooze out of an artery. —But I suspect, Stephen interrupted, that Ireland must be important
because it belongs to me. He is practically a total abstainer and I can
affirm that he sleeps on a straw litter and eats the most Spartan food,
cold dried grocer’s peas. See him grow up. Droop shoulders. )_ Way for the parson. Fill it up
with wind. Joseph, her spouse. Keep you sitting by
the tap all night. Better one guilty escape than
ninetynine wrongfully condemned. —Let us, Mr Power said. Gold in your pocket, brass in your face. Then, gazing over the handkerchief, he said:

—The bard’s noserag! A new art colour for our Irish poets: snotgreen. He held her hand. Catalogue these books. High grade. Bloom went by Barry’s. Doesn’t go properly. —Would I make any money by it? Stephen asked. Cult of the beautiful. Doing its level best to speak. Have you brought a
bottle?

—No, Mr Bloom said. To look
younger. )_ Hugeness!

BELLO: Dungdevourer!

BLOOM: _(With sinews semiflexed. —Hold him now, Ben Dollard said. Pubs do. I
have such a bad headache today. The instantaneous deaths of many powerful
enemies, graziers, members of parliament, members of standing
committees, are reported. What is your
christian name? I’m not sure. The carriage moved on through the drove. m. You were not born to be a teacher, I think. I will. )_

MAJOR TWEEDY: _(Growls gruffly. Jack Mooney’s sister. Brown, Robinson and Co. She took no
notice while he read by rote a solfa fable for her, plappering flatly:

—Ah fox met ah stork. And Bob
Doran starts doing the weeps about Paddy Dignam, true as you’re there. Licensed for the sale of beer, wine and spirits
for consumption on the premises. Out with the
oof. I understand, sir. The Irish catholic
peasant. How much cost?
Waterloo. On the whole though favouring
preferably light opera of the _Don Giovanni_ description and _Martha_,
a gem in its line, he had a _penchant_, though with only a surface
knowledge, for the severe classical school such as Mendelssohn. Good heart. _(With little parted talons she captures his
hand, her forefinger giving to his palm the passtouch of secret
monitor, luring him to doom. Ward
Union huntsmen and huntswomen live with them, hot for a kill. But not a pin cared
Ciss. But suppose now it did happen. Terrible affair that
_General Slocum_ explosion. MRS BREEN: _(Gushingly. Has all vanished since? If I
open and am for ever in the black adiaphane. —I see little hope, Stephen said, from her or from him. BLOOM: No, no. Queer because we both, I
mean. Call me that other. Has a good pair of boots on him
today. If others have their will Ann hath a way. All our habits. Stephen, in reply to a politely put query, said he didn’t sing it but
launched out into praises of Shakespeare’s songs, at least of in or
about that period, the lutenist Dowland who lived in Fetter lane near
Gerard the herbalist, who _anno ludendo hausi, Doulandus_, an
instrument he was contemplating purchasing from Mr Arnold Dolmetsch,
whom B. D. Better speak to him first. Gaze. Drop into the D. _(She frowns with lowered
head. THE JURORS: _(All their heads turned to his voice. All dimpled cheeks and curls,
     Your head it simply swirls. Mr Russell, rumour has it, is gathering
together a sheaf of our younger poets’ verses. )_ I had more respect for the
scouringbrush, so I had. _(The retriever approaches sniffing, nose to the ground. O. George Lidwell told her really and truly: but she did not believe. Iron Nails Ran In. )_
Hnhn. Has the fidgets. Course I never could throw
anything straight at school. Does
anybody really? Plant him and have done with him. Nathan’s voice! His son’s voice! I hear the voice of Nathan who left
his father to die of grief and misery in my arms, who left the house of
his father and left the God of his father. Might be happy all the same that way. Eyes, pale as the sea the wind had freshened, paler, firm and prudent. —Love, says Bloom. —Sabellius, the African, subtlest heresiarch of all the beasts of the
field, held that the Father was Himself His Own Son. Pyjamas, let us say? Or stockingette gussetted knickers, closed? Or,
put we the case, those complicated combinations, camiknickers? _(He
crows derisively. Fizz and Red bank
oysters. Bloom, parting them swiftly, draws his caliph’s hood
and poncho and hurries down the steps with sideways face. With envy he watched their faces: Edith, Ethel, Gerty, Lily. B. The signal for prayer was then promptly
given by megaphone and in an instant all heads were bared, the
commendatore’s patriarchal sombrero, which has been in the possession
of his family since the revolution of Rienzi, being removed by his
medical adviser in attendance, Dr Pippi. I met him the day before
yesterday and he coming out of that Irish farm dairy John Wyse Nolan’s
wife has in Henry street with a jar of cream in his hand taking it home
to his better half. Someone taking a rise out of him. Now you mention it
his face was familiar to me. Ay. With what meditations did Bloom accompany his demonstration to his
companion of various constellations?

Meditations of evolution increasingly vaster: of the moon invisible in
incipient lunation, approaching perigee: of the infinite lattiginous
scintillating uncondensed milky way, discernible by daylight by an
observer placed at the lower end of a cylindrical vertical shaft 5000
ft deep sunk from the surface towards the centre of the earth: of
Sirius (alpha in Canis Maior) 10 lightyears (57,000,000,000,000 miles)
distant and in volume 900 times the dimension of our planet: of
Arcturus: of the precession of equinoxes: of Orion with belt and
sextuple sun theta and nebula in which 100 of our solar systems could
be contained: of moribund and of nascent new stars such as Nova in
1901: of our system plunging towards the constellation of Hercules: of
the parallax or parallactic drift of socalled fixed stars, in reality
evermoving wanderers from immeasurably remote eons to infinitely remote
futures in comparison with which the years, threescore and ten, of
allotted human life formed a parenthesis of infinitesimal brevity. John Eglinton, frowning, said, waxing wroth:

—Upon my word it makes my blood boil to hear anyone compare Aristotle
with Plato. Probably the homelife to which Mr B
attached the utmost importance had not been all that was needful or he
hadn’t been familiarised with the right sort of people. —I have a vision too, Stephen said. —The wife’s advisers, I mean, says Bloom. In his broad bed nuncle Richie, pillowed and blanketed, extends over
the hillock of his knees a sturdy forearm. Gob, there’s many a true word spoken in jest. And in the castle was set a board that was of the birchwood of Finlandy
and it was upheld by four dwarfmen of that country but they durst not
move more for enchantment. A powerful current of warm
breath issued at regular intervals from the profound cavity of his
mouth while in rhythmic resonance the loud strong hale reverberations
of his formidable heart thundered rumblingly causing the ground, the
summit of the lofty tower and the still loftier walls of the cave to
vibrate and tremble. Muskrat. Near it now. _

_H. omphalos. She
had red slippers on. She knew right well, no-one better, what made squinty Edy
say that because of him cooling in his attentions when it was simply a
lovers’ quarrel. Right. For such favours knights of old laid down their
lives. Where?

Hurry. —Is he?

—I was showing him Jubainville’s book. Another thing
just struck him as a by no means bad notion was he might have a gaze
around on the spot to see about trying to make arrangements about a
concert tour of summer music embracing the most prominent pleasure
resorts, Margate with mixed bathing and firstrate hydros and spas,
Eastbourne, Scarborough, Margate and so on, beautiful Bournemouth, the
Channel islands and similar bijou spots, which might prove highly
remunerative. He looks cheerful enough over it. Small nines. There’s a saying of Goethe’s which Mr
Magee likes to quote. To the door of the bar and
diningroom came bald Pat, came bothered Pat, came Pat, waiter of
Ormond. He
keeps it free of weeds. You don’t say so? A friend of my father’s, is it?

—Never mind Gumley, Myles Crawford cried angrily. ?

Bullockbefriending bard. A choir of virgins and
confessors sing voicelessly. My soul’s youth I gave him,
night by night. Me? Says he’s your father, sir. —Ditto MacAnaspey, says I. Each person too. Underground communication. Why he fixed on me. Blind he was she told George Lidwell second I saw. Persecuted. How grand we are this morning!




[ 7 ]


IN THE HEART OF THE HIBERNIAN METROPOLIS


Before Nelson’s pillar trams slowed, shunted, changed trolley, started
for Blackrock, Kingstown and Dalkey, Clonskea, Rathgar and Terenure,
Palmerston Park and upper Rathmines, Sandymount Green, Rathmines,
Ringsend and Sandymount Tower, Harold’s Cross. Milly young student. —Is it his speech last night? Mr Bloom asked. Silly-Milly burying the little dead bird in the kitchen
matchbox, a daisychain and bits of broken chainies on the grave. To me it’s all a mockery and beastly. SHORT BUT TO THE POINT


—Whose land? Mr Bloom said simply. All. Which event or person emerged as the salient point of his narration?

Stephen Dedalus, professor and author. Up the quay went Lionelleopold, naughty Henry with letter for Mady,
with sweets of sin with frillies for Raoul with met him pike hoses went
Poldy on. Italian I prefer. And if ever after he dared to presume she could give him
one look of measured scorn that would make him shrivel up on the spot. Seaside girls. Personally, I detest action. Tea. That we
all lived before on the earth thousands of years ago or some other
planet. Mr Denis J Maginni, professor of dancing &c, in silk hat, slate
frockcoat with silk facings, white kerchief tie, tight lavender
trousers, canary gloves and pointed patent boots, walking with grave
deportment most respectfully took the curbstone as he passed lady
Maxwell at the corner of Dignam’s court. _And let our
crooked smokes. _Bonsoir la compagnie_. _(He repeats. Bold hand. STEPHEN: _(Devoutly. Five, six: the _nacheinander_. All walked after. Three cheers for Israel. My ear against the wall to
hear. He applies his handkerchief to his mouth and scrutinises the
galloping tide of rosepink blood. A moment and all is over. Jesified, orchidised,
polycimical jesuit! Aunty mine’s writing Pa Kinch. Where’s the archbishop’s letter? It’s to be repeated in the
_Telegraph. Riddle me, riddle me, randy ro. Best of all though are the cattle, especially when they are
fed on those oilcakes. Ah!

_(He points to the south, then to the east. One must go first: alone, under the ground:
and lie no more in her warm bed. One of the
drunks spelt out the name: Terence Mulcahy. Shirt is synechdoche. Coming. Short time after man presents woman with pieces of
jungle meat. )_ Down there. ZOE: _(Her head perched aside in mock pride. What is it precisely?

DOLLY GRAY: _(From her balcony waves her handkerchief, giving the sign
of the heroine of Jericho. He raises the ashplant. He’s there, all that was
mortal of him. Blotchy brown brick houses. Touch. )_ She sold lovephiltres, whitewax, orangeflower. Useless pain. That is, help me to believe or
help me to unbelieve? Who helps to believe? _Egomen. —Good day, Stephen, the professor said, coming to peer over their
shoulders. We’re safe. _ He had received the
rhino for the labour of his muse. Mr Bloom stood in his way. Cursed dog I met. Five shillings. ’Tis her ninth chick to live, I hear,
and Lady day bit off her last chick’s nails that was then a twelvemonth
and with other three all breastfed that died written out in a fair hand
in the king’s bible. Come, wandering Ængus of the birds. Up to the present it has done so. What, reduced to their simplest reciprocal form, were Bloom’s thoughts
about Stephen’s thoughts about Bloom and about Stephen’s thoughts about
Bloom’s thoughts about Stephen?

He thought that he thought that he was a jew whereas he knew that he
knew that he knew that he was not. Through the
barbacans the shafts of light are moving ever, slowly ever as my feet
are sinking, creeping duskward over the dial floor. George Roberts is doing the commercial part. Cavan, Cootehill and Belturbet. And even scraping up the earth at night with a lantern like that case I
read of to get at fresh buried females or even putrefied with running
gravesores. Glad to get away from other
chap’s wife. —Dying, he said again, if not dead by now. They are in grey
gauze with dark bat sleeves that flutter in the land breeze. On an
eminence, the centre of the earth, rises the fieldaltar of Saint
Barbara. Only politeness perhaps. )_

ZOE: Are you looking for someone? He’s inside with his friend. He shaved warily over his chin. That is truth, pardy, said Dixon, and, or I err, a pregnant
word. With a deft kick he sends it spinning to his crown and
jauntyhatted skates in. _ Who to unbelieve?
Other chap. Begob I saw there was trouble coming. Not that I heard of. )_ Wow wow wow. —I propose, our hero eventually suggested after mature reflection while
prudently pocketing her photo, as it’s rather stuffy here you just come
home with me and talk things over. Lal the ral the ra
     The rocky road to Dublin. Weary too in sight of
lovers, lascivious men, a naked woman shining in her courts, she draws
a toil of waters. Tinkling. Celestine and S. That likes me well. Gerty had an idea, one of love’s little ruses. Like to give them an odd cigarette. A shoelace. T. Phthisis retires for the time being, then
returns. That was just like Cissycums. Buck Mulligan’s gay voice went on. _

The server piped the answers in the treble. Mrs
Florence MacCabe, relict of the late Patk MacCabe, deeply lamented, of
Bride Street. All off for a drink. There he is: royal Dublin fusiliers. When you have lived as long as
I have. I was guilty with Whelan when he slipped into
the bed. Mr Dedalus covered himself quickly and got in, saying:

—Yes, yes. Kingdoms of this world. —Well, there were two children born anyhow, says Jack Power. shadows. How much? Four quid? Lend us one. And the blame? As I
am. 15 p. Lineaments of gratified desire. —_All is lost now_. Chameleon. Warwickshire jesuits are tried and we have a porter’s
theory of equivocation. The bloody mongrel began to growl that’d put the fear of God in you
seeing something was up but the citizen gave him a kick in the ribs. _(The bawd makes an unheeded sign. Clery’s
Summer Sale. Hospice for the dying. A few
moments later saw our two noctambules safely seated in a discreet
corner only to be greeted by stares from the decidedly miscellaneous
collection of waifs and strays and other nondescript specimens of the
genus _homo_ already there engaged in eating and drinking diversified
by conversation for whom they seemingly formed an object of marked
curiosity. )_ Trinity medicals. Mournful he whistled. Thanks to the Little Flower. —God bless you, Martin Cunningham said, cheerily. Hanging over the bloody paper with Alf looking for spicy bits instead
of attending to the general public. Gobstuff. _For England,
home and beauty_. of me. So Bob Doran comes lurching around asking Bloom to tell Mrs Dignam he
was sorry for her trouble and he was very sorry about the funeral and
to tell her that he said and everyone who knew him said that there was
never a truer, a finer than poor little Willy that’s dead to tell her. You must read them
in the original. His
lub back: I followed. He has washed
the upper moiety. The house was still
sitting, to be sure it was. p: up. Softly
he sang to a dusty seascape there: _A Last Farewell. Not make him walk twice. Peace of the druid priests of Cymbeline: hierophantic:
from wide earth an altar. And one night I went in with a fellow into one of their
musical evenings, song and dance about she could get up on a truss of
hay she could my Maureen Lay and there was a fellow with a Ballyhooly
blue ribbon badge spiffing out of him in Irish and a lot of colleen
bawns going about with temperance beverages and selling medals and
oranges and lemonade and a few old dry buns, gob, flahoolagh
entertainment, don’t be talking. Not up yet. —Mrkgnao! the cat cried. Or? No. All agree with him. —He’s a bloody ruffian, I say, to take away poor little Willy Dignam. Damned glad I didn’t do it in the bath this morning over her
silly I will punish you letter. Come, Kinch, the bards must drink. He would be
tall with broad shoulders (she had always admired tall men for a
husband) with glistening white teeth under his carefully trimmed
sweeping moustache and they would go on the continent for their
honeymoon (three wonderful weeks!) and then, when they settled down in
a nice snug and cosy little homely house, every morning they would both
have brekky, simple but perfectly served, for their own two selves and
before he went out to business he would give his dear little wifey a
good hearty hug and gaze for a moment deep down into her eyes. Farewell. U’s, wedding rings, watchchains, lockets, necklaces and bracelets
are rapidly collected. Give me the fidgets to look. I spoke with Mr Keyes
just now. Well then Friday buried him. Humane methods. The gate was open. Behold the mansion reared by dedal Jack
     See the malt stored in many a refluent sack,
     In the proud cirque of Jackjohn’s bivouac. What did each do at the door of egress?

Bloom set the candlestick on the floor. I wouldn’t doubt her. —I mean to say, Haines explained to Stephen as they followed, this
tower and these cliffs here remind me somehow of Elsinore. )_ No insubordination! The sawdust is there in the
corner for you. Bold hand: Mrs Marion. That was why he asked me to. Darling, I saw, your. Here also over these
craven hearts his shadow lies and on the scoffer’s heart and lips and
on mine. Payment at the rate of one guinea a
column has been made to the writer. Ah, panting, sighing, sighing, ah, fordone, their mirth died down. Two together nextdoor neighbours. All the octuplets are handsome, with valuable metallic faces,
wellmade, respectably dressed and wellconducted, speaking five modern
languages fluently and interested in various arts and sciences. )_ Brain thinks. —Now then, Mr Deasy said, rising. Those girls, those girls,
     Those lovely seaside girls. Numbers it is. —_Puttana madonna, che ci dia i quattrini! Ho ragione? Culo rotto!_

_—Intendiamoci. Can’t read. I can give you a rare old wine that’ll send you
skipping to hell and back. —It’s time for you, she said. My literary efforts have had the good
fortune to meet with the approval of the eminent poet A. —Tell that to a fool, says the citizen. )_

THE CROPPY BOY:

     Horhot ho hray hor hother’s hest. On the penultimate blank page of a book of inferior
literary style, entituled _Sweets of Sin_ (produced by Bloom and so
manipulated that its front cover came in contact with the surface of
the table) with a pencil (supplied by Stephen) Stephen wrote the Irish
characters for gee, eh, dee, em, simple and modified, and Bloom in turn
wrote the Hebrew characters ghimel, aleph, daleth and (in the absence
of mem) a substituted qoph, explaining their arithmetical values as
ordinal and cardinal numbers, videlicet 3, 1, 4, and 100. Listen. You mean that I. Who fears to
speak of nineteen four? Time to be shoving. But, gracious heaven, was I left with but a crust in
my wallet and a cupful of water from the well, my God, I would accept
of them and find it in my heart to kneel down upon the ground and give
thanks to the powers above for the happiness vouchsafed me by the Giver
of good things. Salute. The
empty castle car fronted them at rest in Essex gate. With clang tinkle boomhammer tallyho hornblower blue green
yellow flashes Toft’s cumbersome turns with hobbyhorse riders from
gilded snakes dangled, bowels fandango leaping spurn soil foot and fall
again. She has large pendant beryl eardrops. Lean on me. Nothing to do. Still his gaiety takes the harm out of
it somehow, doesn’t it? What did he call it? Joseph the Joiner?

—The ballad of joking Jesus, Stephen answered. )_ Topping!

BELLA: What? What is it?

_(Zoe whispers to her. —Fat of death, Simon, Ben Dollard growled. Whole place gone to hell. —Beg your pardon, says he. By mighty! What’s he got? Jubilee mutton. Yellowgreen towards
Sutton. Since when, for God’ sake? What’s
yours, Tom?

—How is the main drainage? Nosey Flynn asked, sipping. —Bestir thyself, sirrah! cried he who had knocked. Phial containing arsenic retrieved from body of Miss Barron which sent
Seddon to the gallows. On his suit he has
diamond and ruby buttons. )_ I only
want to correct you for your own good on a soft safe spot. )_ I am very disagreeable. I was not afraid. There be many mo. I’m on two minds not to give that
fellow in charge for obstructing the thoroughfare with his brooms and
ladders. Blot over the other so he can’t read. For the nonce
he was rather nonplussed but inasmuch as the duty plainly devolved upon
him to take some measures on the subject he pondered suitable ways and
means during which Stephen repeatedly yawned. —The peatsmoke is going to his head, John Eglinton opined. ) Rien va plus! (The planets, buoyant balloons, sail swollen up
and away. It’s as limp as a boy of six’s doing his pooly behind a
cart. Bolt upright
like surgeon M’Ardle. —We can do that, the foreman said. That is fine, isn’t it? It
has the prophetic vision. , on the instructions of
the waterworks committee had prohibited the use of municipal water for
purposes other than those of consumption (envisaging the possibility of
recourse being had to the impotable water of the Grand and Royal canals
as in 1893) particularly as the South Dublin Guardians, notwithstanding
their ration of 15 gallons per day per pauper supplied through a 6 inch
meter, had been convicted of a wastage of 20,000 gallons per night by a
reading of their meter on the affirmation of the law agent of the
corporation, Mr Ignatius Rice, solicitor, thereby acting to the
detriment of another section of the public, selfsupporting taxpayers,
solvent, sound. Hm. )_ My centre of gravity is displaced. John Henry Menton took off his hat, bulged out the dinge and smoothed
the nap with care on his coatsleeve. Poor little _nominedomine. Chewing his blade of hay he laid the coffinlid by and came
to the doorway. So. Face of the all is lost. Thanks be to God they had
the start of us. I never put anything on a
horse. Laughing witches in red cutty sarks ride through the air on
broomsticks. How long since your last mass? Glorious
and immaculate virgin. He personally, being of a
sceptical bias, believed and didn’t make the smallest bones about
saying so either that man or men in the plural were always hanging
around on the waiting list about a lady, even supposing she was the
best wife in the world and they got on fairly well together for the
sake of argument, when, neglecting her duties, she chose to be tired of
wedded life and was on for a little flutter in polite debauchery to
press their attentions on her with improper intent, the upshot being
that her affections centred on another, the cause of many _liaisons_
between still attractive married women getting on for fair and forty
and younger men, no doubt as several famous cases of feminine
infatuation proved up to the hilt. O, touch me
soon, now. Show
us over those apricots, meaning peaches. Pat! Doesn’t. Thursday: not a good day either for
a mutton kidney at Buckley’s. England is in the hands of the
jews. —Who are you laughing at? says Bob Doran. STEPHEN: _(Horrorstruck. The mourners
knelt here and there in prayingdesks. Pure olive oil. Another time. _

Who wrote this? Charms and invocations of the most blessed abbot Peter
Salanka to all true believers divulged. —What’s the best news? Mr Dedalus said. Whose mother is beastly dead. See them sitting there stark ballocknaked eating a dead horse’s liver
raw. The heavy noonreek tickled the top of Mr Bloom’s
gullet. Keep a trot for the avenue. Jappies? High angle fire, inyah! Sunk by war specials. )_ I suppose so, father. )_ My more than Brother!
_(Placing his arms round the shoulders of an old couple. Where is my hat, by the way? Must have put it back on the
peg. Afternoon she said. She
bore his children and she laid pennies on his eyes to keep his eyelids
closed when he lay on his deathbed. Night he ran round to us to borrow a dress suit
for that concert. Why for the observer impressionability in addition to vigour, corporal
proportion and commercial ability?

Because he had observed with augmenting frequency in the preceding
members of the same series the same concupiscence, inflammably
transmitted, first with alarm, then with understanding, then with
desire, finally with fatigue, with alternating symptoms of epicene
comprehension and apprehension. J. Spouse and helpmate of Adam Kadmon: Heva, naked Eve. Dr Horne got her in. —Their syphilisation, you mean, says the citizen. )_ High jinks below stairs. The lamp’s broken. A. _(He guffaws
again. Nice country residence. That’s all right. More power the Cavan girl. No,
she was not so lonely archly miss Douce’s head let Mr Lidwell know. Only a little burnt. Of course the other senses are more. Still perhaps: once in a way. The priest bent
down to put it into her mouth, murmuring all the time. Marion. )_ No? You wouldn’t do a less thing. BLOOM: I have forgotten for the moment. It is not perchance a French compliment? Mr
O’Madden Burke asked. The honourable Gerald Ward A. And Bloom cuts in again about lawn tennis and the circulation of the
blood, asking Alf:

—Now, don’t you think, Bergan?

—Myler dusted the floor with him, says Alf. —Have you time for a brief libation, Martin? says Ned. Between the car and window, warily walking, went Bloom, unconquered
hero. Mr Bloom, alone, looked at the titles. Gum he’s a champion. A make, mister. —Ah, you’ve touched there too, Mr Bloom said, Europa point, thinking he
had, in the hope that the rover might possibly by some reminiscences
but he failed to do so, simply letting spirt a jet of spew into the
sawdust, and shook his head with a sort of lazy scorn. Why, I wonder. _

     Co-ome thou lost one,
     Co-ome thou dear one!

THE CROZIER AND THE PEN


—His grace phoned down twice this morning, Red Murray said gravely. Think no more about
that. I was happier then. 5). And what was it only one of the smutty yankee pictures Terry borrows
off of Corny Kelleher. Four omnipotent
sovereigns. Dillon,
ex lord mayor of Dublin. All is lost now. And thereafter in that fruitful land
the broadleaved mango flourished exceedingly. Still as regards return. —Yes, sir. A. )_ Not that I wish it for you. )_ For that lot. There is a meeting of the cattletraders’ association today at the
City Arms hotel. So the citizen takes up one of his paraphernalia papers and he starts
reading out:

—A delegation of the chief cotton magnates of Manchester was presented
yesterday to His Majesty the Alaki of Abeakuta by Gold Stick in
Waiting, Lord Walkup of Walkup on Eggs, to tender to His Majesty the
heartfelt thanks of British traders for the facilities afforded them in
his dominions. —Yes, says Bloom. Those old popes keen on music,
on art and statues and pictures of all kinds. —O, do, sir. Where? Here there try there here all try where. Had his office in Hume street. Suits her,
with a little jessamine mixed. _De mortuis
nil nisi prius_. —Stand up straight for the love of the lord Jesus, Mr Dedalus said. Indoor:
discussion in tepid security of unsolved historical and criminal
problems: lecture of unexpurgated exotic erotic masterpieces: house
carpentry with toolbox containing hammer, awl, nails, screws, tintacks,
gimlet, tweezers, bullnose plane and turnscrew. —Yes, sir. And no more turn aside and brood. He does some canvassing for ads. A large and appreciative gathering of friends and acquaintances from
the metropolis and greater Dublin assembled in their thousands to bid
farewell to Nagyaságos uram Lipóti Virag, late of Messrs Alexander
Thom’s, printers to His Majesty, on the occasion of his departure for
the distant clime of Százharminczbrojúgulyás-Dugulás (Meadow of
Murmuring Waters). Lot of babies she must have helped into the world. Open. As I am. Poetical idea: pink, then golden, then grey, then
black. —O, I know him, Myles Crawford said, and I knew his wife too. wanted. Charley, you’re my darling. Said thee fox too thee stork: Will you put your
bill down inn my troath and pull upp ah bone?

He droned in vain. )_

THE WATCH: Bloom. The man that was come in to the house then spoke to the nursingwoman
and he asked her how it fared with the woman that lay there in
childbed. —You just took the words out of my mouth, he said. Remember. Mouth to her kiss. Quirke, etc. Because you get it out of all holes
and corners. The lacquey, aware of comment, shook the lolling clapper of his bell
but feebly:

—Bang!

Mr Dedalus stared at him. But my point was. —Are we all here now? Martin Cunningham asked. Good God he never heard in all his life
a note like that he never did _then false one we had better part_ so
clear so God he never heard _since love lives not_ a clinking voice
lives not ask Lambert he can tell you too. He must be fed
up with that job, shaking that thing over all the corpses they trot up. —And now he’s going round to Mr Menton’s office. Far. Three acres and a cow for all children of nature. O that way! O, that’s exquisite! Feel it myself too. BLOOM: _(Wearing a purple Napoleon hat with an amber halfmoon, his
fingers and thumb passing slowly down to her soft moist meaty palm
which she surrenders gently. The same room and hour, the same wisdom: and I the same. Lenehan
promptly struck a match for them and lit their cigarettes in turn. The league told him to ask a question
tomorrow about the commissioner of police forbidding Irish games in the
park. At the risk
of her own, was the telling rejoinder of his interlocutor, none the
less effective for the moderate and measured tone in which it was
delivered. _(He weeps tearlessly. How are the secondhand breeks?

—They fit well enough, Stephen answered. The people’s William. Bits all khrrrrklak in place clack back. BLOOM: I will but is it wise? _(He counts. _The Beauties of Killarney_ (wrappers). He followed M’Coy out across the tiny square of Crampton court. THE NYMPH: _(Sadly. Way he looked that. Mr Fox!

_(Mother Grogan throws her boot at Bloom. *    *    *


Almidano Artifoni walked past Holles street, past Sewell’s yard. Eugene Stratton. Dr Hy Franks. O, I shall
expire! Break the news to her gently, Aubrey! I shall die! With slit
ribbons of his shirt whipping the air he hops and hobbles round the
table, with trousers down at heels, chased by Ades of Magdalen with the
tailor’s shears. Where is the justice being
born that way? All those women and children excursion beanfeast burned
and drowned in New York. )_ Answer. ) Here, I can’t hold this little lot much
longer. )_ Let me be going now, woman
of the house, for by all the goats in Connemara I’m after having the
father and mother of a bating. The hero folded her willowy form in a loving
embrace murmuring fondly _Sheila, my own_. Asking. )_ Came from a hot place. Lying out on the
strand all day. —Tell me, Mulligan, Stephen said quietly. —Because, you see, says Bloom, for an advertisement you must have
repetition. Dick Tivy bald?

—Martin is going to get up a whip for the youngsters, Ned Lambert said,
pointing ahead. _Written. By the chains the horse slowly swerved to turn, which perceiving,
Bloom, who was keeping a sharp lookout as usual, plucked the other’s
sleeve gently, jocosely remarking:

—Our lives are in peril tonight. They talk excitedly. For
another: a constable off duty cuddling her in Eccles’ Lane. Bloom through the bardoor saw a shell held at their ears. PRIVATE COMPTON: _(Laughs. Invincible
ignorance. He is followed by a race of runners and leapers. Who’s talking about. God, you’ve to book ahead, man, you’d think it was for the
Carl Rosa. O, poor Robinson Crusoe!
     How could you possibly do so?

Poor Dignam! His last lie on the earth in his box. With his name in Stubbs’s. No. Straight on her pins anyway
not like the other. All looked. They knew: had never learned nor ever been innocent. A bandy child, asquat on the
doorstep with a paper shuttlecock, crawls sidling after her in spurts,
clutches her skirt, scrambles up. )_

_Per vias rectas!_

_(A yoke of buckets leopards all over him and his rearing nag a torrent
of mutton broth with dancing coins of carrots, barley, onions, turnips,
potatoes. _(Her hand slides into his left trouser pocket and brings out a hard
black shrivelled potato. Dress does it. They never come back. I wouldn’t let my
brother, not even my own brother, most lascivious thing. Gob, that
puts the bloody kybosh on it if old sloppy eyes is mucking up the show. Bag under their tails. They sing. )_ London’s burning, London’s
burning! On fire, on fire! (_He catches sight of the navvy lurching
through the crowd at the farther side of Talbot street. Or so they allege. Let Gumley mind the
stones, see they don’t run away. Benedictine. Be a feast for the
gods. Try all pockets. F. Pluck and draw
fowl. Divorced Spanish American. this morning. Absurd! I suppose I did say it. The air feeds most. I read in that
_Voyages in China_ that the Chinese say a white man smells like a
corpse. —Filberts I believe they were, Mr Dedalus said, as he dropped his
glasses on his coatfront, following them. I like that? See her from
here though. —Does he? What does Mr Sidney Lee, or Mr Simon Lazarus as some aver his
name is, say of it?

—Marina, Stephen said, a child of storm, Miranda, a wonder, Perdita,
that which was lost. Where’s old Tweedy’s regiment?
Castoff soldier. Two left. Chump chop from the grill. Whew! Girl in Meath
street that night. Howth. ) Qui vous a mis dans cette fichue position,
Philippe?_

PHILIP SOBER: _(Gaily. FIRST WATCH: Infernal machine with a time fuse. )_ Pchp! _(He worries his butt. Or
kind of feelers in the dark, perhaps. C. Sodachapped hands. Even admire themselves. Something quite ordinary. PADDY DIGNAM: _(With pricked up ears, winces. Be a prism. Different ways of bringing off a coup. Never know who you’re talking to. —Aha. )_ You know that old joke, rose of Castile. —Seymour a bleeding officer! Buck Mulligan said. Remember him in your prayers. Venus Kallipyge. On the hands down. Tap. Kismet. O. Every
lady in the audience was presented with a tasteful souvenir of the
occasion in the shape of a skull and crossbones brooch, a timely and
generous act which evoked a fresh outburst of emotion: and when the
gallant young Oxonian (the bearer, by the way, of one of the most
timehonoured names in Albion’s history) placed on the finger of his
blushing _fiancée_ an expensive engagement ring with emeralds set in
the form of a fourleaved shamrock the excitement knew no bounds. Mansmell, I mean. Filled with his god,
he thrones, Buddh under plantain. Chance. BLOOM: Lapses are condoned. What causes
that? I suppose the skin can’t contract quickly enough when the flesh
falls off. He was so kind and holy and often and often she thought and
thought could she work a ruched teacosy with embroidered floral design
for him as a present or a clock but they had a clock she noticed on the
mantelpiece white and gold with a canarybird that came out of a little
house to tell the time the day she went there about the flowers for the
forty hours’ adoration because it was hard to know what sort of a
present to give or perhaps an album of illuminated views of Dublin or
some place. A hesitating soul taking arms
against a sea of troubles, torn by conflicting doubts, as one sees in
real life. He followed his guest to the outlet and then whirled his lath away
among the pillars. That it was a Utopia, there being no known method from the
known to the unknown: an infinity renderable equally finite by the
suppositious apposition of one or more bodies equally of the same and
of different magnitudes: a mobility of illusory forms immobilised in
space, remobilised in air: a past which possibly had ceased to exist as
a present before its probable spectators had entered actual present
existence. The
propitious moment. He gazed over Stephen’s shoulder at Goldsmith’s knobby poll. Not as bad as it
sounds. Their wigs to show the grey matter. And once at masstime he had gone to
play. A most instructive discussion. —Are you a strict t. Not smooth enough. Soft day, sir John!
Soft day, your honour!. But Tommy
said he wanted the ball and Edy told him no that baby was playing with
the ball and if he took it there’d be wigs on the green but Tommy said
it was his ball and he wanted his ball and he pranced on the ground, if
you please. Will I give him a lift home? Where does he hang out? Somewhere in
Cabra, what?

BLOOM: No, in Sandycove, I believe, from what he let drop. Then they would all to a man have gone
down on their marrowbones to him to come back when he had recovered his
senses. 3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE. _Belladonna. —Look at here, he said turning. Martin Cunningham whispered:

—I was in mortal agony with you talking of suicide before Bloom. Along the route the regiments of the Royal
Dublin Fusiliers, the King’s own Scottish Borderers, the Cameron
Highlanders and the Welsh Fusiliers, standing to attention, keep back
the crowd. Talking about new Ireland he ought to go and get a
new dog so he ought. He looked calmly down on her bulk and between her large
soft bubs, sloping within her nightdress like a shegoat’s udder. _Et vidit Deus. _

Yes. Look straight in her eyes. —Everything went off A1, he said. eleven, Mr Bloom answered. Wolfe Tone. Christmas turkeys and geese. 15, by the
cultivation of orange plantations and melonfields and reafforestation. Here see lost love. I often told poor Paddy he ought
to mind that job. In what state of rest or motion?

At rest relatively to themselves and to each other. STEPHEN: No voice. And take some double chin drill. He goes back, weary of the creation he has
piled up to hide him from himself, an old dog licking an old sore. She laughed:

—O wept! Aren’t men frightful idiots?

With sadness. And even supposing you did you won’t get in after what
occurred at Westland Row station. At Duke lane a ravenous terrier choked up a sick knuckly cud on the
cobblestones and lapped it with new zest. His real name is Higgins. Flicker, flicker: the laceflare of her
hat in the sun: flicker, flick. Cut up! Pflaap! Tally ho. His smile softens. Absurd. Thereat laughed they all right jocundly only young Stephen and sir
Leopold which never durst laugh too open by reason of a strange humour
which he would not bewray and also for that he rued for her that bare
whoso she might be or wheresoever. Frogmore memorial mourning. Dense clouds roll past. To be seen and heard. Lukewarm glue in Thom’s next door
when I was there. O’Molloy sent a weary sidelong glance towards the statue and held
his peace. My teeth are very
bad. Stephen raised the sheets in his hand. Boody, breaking big chunks of bread into the yellow soup, added:

—Our father who art not in heaven. Mind C. Mr Stephen, a little
moved but very handsomely told him no such matter and that he had
dispatches from the emperor’s chief tailtickler thanking him for the
hospitality, that was sending over Doctor Rinderpest, the bestquoted
cowcatcher in all Muscovy, with a bolus or two of physic to take the
bull by the horns. —The greatest disgrace to have in the family, Mr Power added. But here is the matter now. Virgins go mad in the
end I suppose. Must call to the hospital. R. Fang, I feel. Molly often told me feel things a ton weight. )_ Mr Lambe from London. Stuff them
up with meat and drink. I see them. At eleven it is. A
scheme to connect by tramline the Cattle Market (North Circular road
and Prussia street) with the quays (Sheriff street, lower, and East
Wall), parallel with the Link line railway laid (in conjunction with
the Great Southern and Western railway line) between the cattle park,
Liffey junction, and terminus of Midland Great Western Railway 43 to 45
North Wall, in proximity to the terminal stations or Dublin branches of
Great Central Railway, Midland Railway of England, City of Dublin Steam
Packet Company, Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway Company, Dublin and
Glasgow Steam Packet Company, Glasgow, Dublin and Londonderry Steam
Packet Company (Laird line), British and Irish Steam Packet Company,
Dublin and Morecambe Steamers, London and North Western Railway
Company, Dublin Port and Docks Board Landing Sheds and transit sheds of
Palgrave, Murphy and Company, steamship owners, agents for steamers
from Mediterranean, Spain, Portugal, France, Belgium and Holland and
for Liverpool Underwriters’ Association, the cost of acquired rolling
stock for animal transport and of additional mileage operated by the
Dublin United Tramways Company, limited, to be covered by graziers’
fees. )_

GERTY: With all my worldly goods I thee and thou. Kind air defined the coigns of houses in Kildare street. They were there
gathered together without distinction of social class (and a most
edifying spectacle it was to see) in that simple fane beside the waves,
after the storms of this weary world, kneeling before the feet of the
immaculate, reciting the litany of Our Lady of Loreto, beseeching her
to intercede for them, the old familiar words, holy Mary, holy virgin
of virgins. Chow!. Wait. His Excellency graciously returned Mr Dedalus’ greeting. In rue Monsieur-le-Prince I thought it. The
shadows of the tombs when churchyards yawn and Daniel O’Connell must be
a descendant I suppose who is this used to say he was a queer breedy
man great catholic all the same like a big giant in the dark. Matcham often thinks the laughing witch. He brightens the earth. And the
retrospective arrangement. Sweet tea miss Kennedy having poured with milk plugged both two ears
with little fingers. And then the lamb and the cat and the dog and the stick and the water
and the butcher. This. gutenberg. Serum and virus. )_ I bet she’s a bonny lassie. See her in her
dishybilly. The doctors of
the church: they mapped out the whole theology of it. Talbot slid his closed book into his satchel. What reflection concerning the irregular sequence of dates 1884, 1885,
1886, 1888, 1892, 1893, 1904 did Bloom make before their arrival at
their destination?

He reflected that the progressive extension of the field of individual
development and experience was regressively accompanied by a
restriction of the converse domain of interindividual relations. ; the very rev. Kidney pie. Aware of their greed and cunning he shook the powdery crumb from his
hands. Why pay more?

STEPHEN: _(Hands him all his coins. I mean, a kind
of private paper, don’t you know, of his private life. He has travelled. She smilesmirked supercilious (wept! aren’t men?), but, lightward
gliding, mild she smiled on Boylan. The Jews in the wilderness and on the mountaintop said: _It is meet to
be here. Before him the
gunwale of a boat, sunk in sand. Kill! Kill!

Suppose that communal kitchen years to come perhaps. Pomp of death. O’Molloy said not without regret:

—And yet he died without having entered the land of promise. Remember write Greek ees. Keep that thing up for hours. Order. —Wife well?

—Quite well, thanks. —She never let them in, he cried again through his laughter as he
stamped on gaitered feet over the gravel of the path. )_

THE NAVVY: _(Belching. m. Concussion. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. What miscellaneous effects of female personal wearing apparel were
perceived by him?

A pair of new inodorous halfsilk black ladies’ hose, a pair of new
violet garters, a pair of outsize ladies’ drawers of India mull, cut on
generous lines, redolent of opoponax, jessamine and Muratti’s Turkish
cigarettes and containing a long bright steel safety pin, folded
curvilinear, a camisole of batiste with thin lace border, an accordion
underskirt of blue silk moirette, all these objects being disposed
irregularly on the top of a rectangular trunk, quadruple battened,
having capped corners, with multicoloured labels, initialled on its
fore side in white lettering B. Cold nose he’d have kissing a woman. J. Corpse brought in through a secret door in the
wall. )_

     Li li poo lil chile
     Blingee pigfoot evly night
     Payee two shilly. Pat is a waiter hard of
his hearing. He was alone. Still I will help him in his fight. Never see it now. Blood of the Lamb. He faced their silence. The
proceedings then terminated. Kept her voice
up to the very last. Saw him looking at my frockcoat. drink. Murphy. Course they do. _(Satirically. They want special dishes to pretend they’re. —And to think of your having to beg from these swine. One umbrella, were it no bigger than a
fairy mushroom, is worth ten such stopgaps. BLOOM: _(Quickly. Or is it from her? A barefoot arab
stood over the grating, breathing in the fumes. Several shopkeepers from
upper and lower Dorset street throw objects of little or no commercial
value, hambones, condensed milk tins, unsaleable cabbage, stale bread,
sheep’s tails, odd pieces of fat. Better
remind her of the word: metempsychosis. Rows of grimy houses with gaping
doors. Have
to stand a drink or two. The redcoat ducked but the Dubliner lifted him
with a left hook, the body punch being a fine one. Where was the marshal, he wanted to
know, to keep order in the council chamber. Deep in Leinster street by Trinity’s postern a loyal king’s man,
Hornblower, touched his tallyho cap. They have forgotten Kevin Egan, not he them. Towncrier, bumbailiff. Klook Klook Klook. Watercloset. And old Barlow the
macebearer laid up with asthma, no mace on the table, nothing in order,
no quorum even, and Hutchinson, the lord mayor, in Llandudno and little
Lorcan Sherlock doing _locum tenens_ for him. —A new apostle to the gentiles, says the citizen. All chic womans which arrive full of modesty
then disrobe and squeal loud to see vampire man debauch nun very fresh
young with _dessous troublants_. That’s what he is. Let us get out of the kip. —Give us that key, Kinch, Buck Mulligan said, to keep my chemise flat. _

Nile. —It, Simon. Gone with the wind. )_ Have it now or wait till you get it? _(He
opens his mouth, his head cocked. )_ She’s a bit imbecillic. )_ Who came to Poulaphouca with the High School
excursion? Who left his nutquesting classmates to seek our shade?

BLOOM: _(Scared. John Lavery,
V. Afternoon. A contract with an
inconsiderate contractee for the delivery of 32 consignments of some
given commodity in consideration of cash payment on delivery per
delivery at the initial rate of 1/4d to be increased constantly in the
geometrical progression of 2 (1/4d, 1/2d, 1d, 2d, 4d, 8d, 1s 4d, 2s 8d
to 32 terms). o. Emperor’s horses at Mürzsteg,
lower Austria. Are you not happy in
your? Twang. But her breasts
were developed. Jingling on supple rubbers it jaunted from the bridge to Ormond quay. Proudly walking. —Roast beef and cabbage. Beggar. Monkwords, marybeads
jabber on their girdles: roguewords, tough nuggets patter in their
pockets. O’Molloy said eagerly. )_ Bubbly jock! Bubbly jock! Where are
we? Open Sesame! Cometh forth! _(He unrolls his parchment rapidly and
reads, his glowworm’s nose running backwards over the letters which he
claws. Ruminants. The idea, he was strongly inclined to
believe, was to do good and net a profit, there being no competition to
speak of. Six bob. The scent, the smile, but,
more than these, the dark eyes and oleaginous address, brought home at
duskfall many a commission to the head of the firm, seated with Jacob’s
pipe after like labours in the paternal ingle (a meal of noodles, you
may be sure, is aheating), reading through round horned spectacles some
paper from the Europe of a month before. Staggering
bob. Miss Douce reached high to take a flagon, stretching her satin arm, her
bust, that all but burst, so high. _(Gazelles are leaping, feeding on the mountains. )_

FIRST WATCH: What’s wrong here?

PRIVATE COMPTON: We were with this lady. )_

BELLO: _(With bobbed hair, purple gills, fat moustache rings round his
shaven mouth, in mountaineer’s puttees, green silverbuttoned coat,
sport skirt and alpine hat with moorcock’s feather, his hands stuck
deep in his breeches pockets, places his heel on her neck and grinds it
in. And you can see
the darkness in their eyes. )_. So lonely blooming. And tipsycake. —The same, Simon, Father Cowley answered. In Luke Doyle’s long ago. Blind to the world up in a shebeen in Bride street after
closing time, fornicating with two shawls and a bully on guard,
drinking porter out of teacups. MARION: He ought to feel himself highly honoured. )_ The cat’s ramble through the slag. _The Croppy Boy. THOSE SLIGHTLY RAMBUNCTIOUS FEMALES


—Easy all, Myles Crawford said. Put a pin in that chap, will you? My tablets. D. It was Gerty who turned off the gas
at the main every night and it was Gerty who tacked up on the wall of
that place where she never forgot every fortnight the chlorate of lime
Mr Tunney the grocer’s christmas almanac, the picture of halcyon days
where a young gentleman in the costume they used to wear then with a
threecornered hat was offering a bunch of flowers to his ladylove with
oldtime chivalry through her lattice window. Who’s dead, when and what did he
die of? Turn up like a bad penny. Suppose I spoke to her. I bring thee thy answer. Did Stephen participate in his dejection?

He affirmed his significance as a conscious rational animal proceeding
syllogistically from the known to the unknown and a conscious rational
reagent between a micro and a macrocosm ineluctably constructed upon
the incertitude of the void. And then the fifth quarter
lost: all that raw stuff, hide, hair, horns. Walk. )_

STEPHEN: _Vidi aquam egredientem de templo a latere dextro. On his head is perched an
Egyptian pshent. The first night after the charades. It may be an
old hymn to Demeter or also illustrate _Cœla enarrant gloriam Domini. South Frederick street. Something confused. In 1885 he had publicly expressed his adherence to the
collective and national economic programme advocated by James Fintan
Lalor, John Fisher Murray, John Mitchel, J. I suppose each kind of trade made its
own, don’t you see? Hunter with a horn. Only namesakes. Some flatfoot tramp on it in the morning. Foundation stone for Parnell. _Thoughts from Spinoza_ (maroon leather). Ah! Destruction! The black panther! With a cry
he suddenly vanished and the panel slid back. Why not endless till
the farthest star? Darkly they are there behind this light, darkness
shining in the brightness, delta of Cassiopeia, worlds. Do they snapshot those girls or is it all a fake? _Lingerie_
does it. I’ll tell my
brother, the Bective rugger fullback, on you, heartless flirt. Bridebed,
childbed, bed of death, ghostcandled. We’ll never meet again. Pflaap! _Ut implerentur scripturae_. He was the croppy
boy. He thought, but not for long,
of soldiers and sailors, whose legs had been shot off by cannonballs,
ending their days in some pauper ward, and of cardinal Wolsey’s words:
_If I had served my God as I have served my king He would not have
abandoned me in my old days. He died on Monday, poor
fellow_. and C. Allbright he falls, proud lightning of the intellect,
_Lucifer, dico, qui nescit occasum_. He turned back the
other side of the card, picture, and passed it along to Stephen. ’S, while outriders pranced past and carriages. He made a mistake to fight the priests. Towers, Battersby, North,
MacArthur: parlour windows plastered with bills. I called
you naughty boy because I do not like that other world. He was their rector: his reign was mild. Ask yourself
who is he now. His
(Stephen’s) mind was not exactly what you would call wandering but a
bit unsteady and on his expressed desire for some beverage to drink Mr
Bloom in view of the hour it was and there being no pump of Vartry
water available for their ablutions let alone drinking purposes hit
upon an expedient by suggesting, off the reel, the propriety of the
cabman’s shelter, as it was called, hardly a stonesthrow away near Butt
bridge where they might hit upon some drinkables in the shape of a milk
and soda or a mineral. Alleluia_. Rumbold,
            Master Barber. Household slops. Beauty and the beast. Mercy of God the
sun was in his eyes or he’d have left him for dead. )_ Hard earned on the flat of my back. Composition of place. _Vieille ogresse_ with the
_dents jaunes_. The shopman lifted eyes bleared with old rheum. Whispering lovewords murmur, liplapping
loudly, poppysmic plopslop. Murphy of Carrigaloe. The sun freed itself slowly and lit glints of light among the
silverware opposite in Walter Sexton’s window by which John Howard
Parnell passed, unseeing. Canv. Keep my mind off. Agenbite of inwit. Ned Lambert nodded. Condense Stephen’s commentary. You’ll find them very
handy. All tales of circus life are highly demoralising. Good fellow! Fido! Good fellow! Garryowen! _(The
wolfdog sprawls on his back, wriggling obscenely with begging paws, his
long black tongue lolling out. Where did I put her letter after I read it
in the bath? He patted his waistcoatpocket. Grave Gladstone sees him level, Bloom for Bloom. Mr Coghlan took one of
me and Mrs. g. —What is this, he said, in the name of God? Crumbs?

—Someone seems to have been making a picnic party here lately, Mr Power
said. FIRST WATCH: It was only in case of corporal injuries I’d have to
report it at the station. The Burton. —Did you see that bloody lunatic Breen round there? says Alf. I believe there is. Compulsory manual labour for all. Where Skin-the-Goat drove the car. Well preserved fat corpse, gentleman, epicure,
invaluable for fruit garden. )_

THE VOICE OF KITTY: _(In the thicket. Furthermore he had a row with Lenehan and called
him to Stephen a mean bloody swab with a sprinkling of a number of
other uncalledfor expressions. Air of the place maybe. The courthouse is a blind. Why?

—I noticed he was in mourning. Frail from the housetops two plumes of smoke ascended, pluming, and in
a flaw of softness softly were blown. For
which reason he encouraged Stephen to proceed with his eyes while he
did the honours by surreptitiously pushing the cup of what was
temporarily supposed to be called coffee gradually nearer him. The stiff walk. Spread I saw down in the Master of the Rolls’ kitchen area. ’Slife, I’ll be round with you. Picture of a butting match, trying
to crack their bloody skulls, one chap going for the other with his
head down like a bull at a gate. I got stuck
twice in the junior at the christian brothers. In sum an infinite great fall of rain and all refreshed and
will much increase the harvest yet those in ken say after wind and
water fire shall come for a prognostication of Malachi’s almanac (and I
hear that Mr Russell has done a prophetical charm of the same gist out
of the Hindustanish for his farmer’s gazette) to have three things in
all but this a mere fetch without bottom of reason for old crones and
bairns yet sometimes they are found in the right guess with their
queerities no telling how. —I want to see about that French horse that’s running today, Bantam
Lyons said. Destiny. THE VEILED SIBYL: _(Stabs herself. Round towers. Come, mess. And then the angel of death kills the butcher and he
kills the ox and the dog kills the cat. ZOE: Thursday’s child has far to go. I saw him up at that meeting now with William
Field, M. Playing it slow, a girl, night I came home, the girl. Gob, he’ll come home by weeping
cross one of those days, I’m thinking. 279 B. —_Her mouth glued on his in a luscious voluptuous kiss while his hands
felt for the opulent curves inside her déshabillé. Beaming. Provost’s house. Those homely recipes are often the best: strawberries for the
teeth: nettles and rainwater: oatmeal they say steeped in buttermilk. )_ Hail,
Sisyphus. Weighing them up perhaps to see which
will go next. The best, in
fact. His voice had a cultured ring in it and though he spoke in
measured accents there was a suspicion of a quiver in the mellow tones. Corny Kelleher he has Harvey Duff in
his eye. All songs on that theme. —Come around to Barney Kiernan’s, says Joe. Pity so empty. Lord Howard de
Walden’s _Zinfandel_ (M. )_ Night, gentlemen. Has that silk hat ever since. A raindrop spat on his hat. STEPHEN: No, I flew. It is a mystical estate, an apostolic succession, from only
begetter to only begotten. How many previous encounters proved their preexisting acquaintance?

Two. _His singing of that simple
ballad, Martin, is the most trenchant rendering I ever heard in the
whole course of my experience. He looked almost a saint and his confessionbox was so quiet
and clean and dark and his hands were just like white wax and if ever
she became a Dominican nun in their white habit perhaps he might come
to the convent for the novena of Saint Dominic. Through rising fog a dragon
sandstrewer, travelling at caution, slews heavily down upon him, its
huge red headlight winking, its trolley hissing on the wire. —The absentminded beggar, Stephen ended. )_ Will someone tell me where I am least
likely to meet these necessary evils? _Ça se voit aussi à Paris. What public advertisement would divulge the occultation of the
departed?

£ 5 reward, lost, stolen or strayed from his residence 7 Eccles street,
missing gent about 40, answering to the name of Bloom, Leopold (Poldy),
height 5 ft 9 1/2 inches, full build, olive complexion, may have since
grown a beard, when last seen was wearing a black suit. _Fermé_. )_ What went forth to the ends of the world to
traverse not itself, God, the sun, Shakespeare, a commercial traveller,
having itself traversed in reality itself becomes that self. Fellow hid behind a door, come up behind him. Watch!

A heavy tramcar honking its gong slewed between. BELLO: _(Sarcastically. A STREET CORTÈGE


Both smiled over the crossblind at the file of capering newsboys in Mr
Bloom’s wake, the last zigzagging white on the breeze a mocking kite, a
tail of white bowknots. All kissed, yielded: in deep summer
fields, tangled pressed grass, in trickling hallways of tenements,
along sofas, creaking beds. He watched the dark eyeslits
narrowing with greed till her eyes were green stones. Just going to write. _(Edy Boardman, sniffling, crouched with Bertha Supple, draws her shawl
across her nostrils. Wrist through
the braided jesse of her sunshade. —Mr Dollard, they murmured low. Still, I shouldn’t wonder if he did after all. Music hall stage. White horses with white frontlet plumes came round the Rotunda corner,
galloping. —Right, says Ned, taking up his John Jameson. P: up. )
Coactus volui. The sailor, who scarcely seemed to be a Dublin resident, turned to one
of the jarvies with the request:

—You don’t happen to have such a thing as a spare chaw about you?

The jarvey addressed as it happened had not but the keeper took a die
of plug from his good jacket hanging on a nail and the desired object
was passed from hand to hand. , Edw. Yes, a kind of summer
tour, you see. Must be the cider or perhaps the burgund. PRIVATE CARR: _(Breaks loose. She set the brasses jingling as she raised herself briskly, an elbow on
the pillow. Must ask Ned Lambert to lend me those
reminiscences of sir Jonah Barrington. _ Crooked botched print. All that the hand says when
you touch. Be interesting some day get a pass through Hancock to see
the brewery. M. Better not teach him his own business. J. Though he was slightly hampered by an occasional stammer and his
gestures being also clumsy as it was still he did his best to explain. He brushes a
mudflake from his cheek with a parcelled hand. Stephen stood up and went over to the parapet. You have eaten all we left. Such an appeal will touch him. Then the old specimen in the corner who
appeared to have some spark of vitality left read out that sir Anthony
MacDonnell had left Euston for the chief secretary’s lodge or words to
that effect. _(The pianola with changing lights plays in waltz time the prelude of_
My Girl’s a Yorkshire Girl. BEST: I hope Edmund is going to catch it. I’m the alligator. What is she? Hope she. Must get those settled really. I heartily wish you may not fail them. Ah, yes! _(He takes off his
high grade hat, saluting. —But a lovely mummer! he murmured to himself. He
told me to be a good son to ma. The sky showed him a flock of
small white clouds going slowly down the wind. THE BAWD: _(Spits in their trail her jet of venom. But
they were God’s souls, created by God. —O, yes. Is that his
name?

He moved away, looking about him. Did you try the borax with
the cherry laurel water?

Miss Douce halfstood to see her skin askance in the barmirror
gildedlettered where hock and claret glasses shimmered and in their
midst a shell. Rocket and
breeches buoy and lifeboat. No sound. Knows I’m a man. Why the cannibals cotton to it. _

—No, Stephen said. A dwarf’s face, mauve and wrinkled like little Rudy’s was. )_ Megeggaggegg! Nannannanny!

BLOOM: _(Hatless, flushed, covered with burrs of thistledown and
gorsespine. —I never broach the subject, Davy Byrne said humanely, if I see a
gentleman is in trouble that way. Mourners came out through the gates: woman and a girl. He tore the flower gravely from its pinhold smelt its almost no smell
and placed it in his heart pocket. Yes, sir. Is coming! Is coming!! Is coming!!!
     All heartily welcome. While he unwrapped the kidney the cat
mewed hungrily against him. It was I broke in the bucking broncho Ajax with my
patent spiked saddle for carnivores. Molly. Wylie, A. —O, well, he said. Paltry funeral: coach and three carriages. Her fancyman is treating two Royal
Dublins in O’Loughlin’s of Blackpitts. We’re all in a cart. To hell with them!
The curse of a goodfornothing God light sideways on the bloody
thicklugged sons of whores’ gets! No music and no art and no literature
worthy of the name. Wait. Intermezzo. I mean, a believer in
the narrow sense of the word. Enthusiast. Her hand that rocks the cradle rules the. John Henry Menton is
behind. The mourners took heart of grace, one by one, covering themselves
without show. )_ You sang that song to me. Klook. BIDDY THE CLAP: One immediately observes that he is of patrician
lineage. )_
Wonder. Or a woman’s with her saucepan. No soft job. Canv. —At the cemetery, Martin Cunningham said. All the dirty things I made her say. J. ITHACANS VOW PEN IS CHAMP. Manufactured by George Plumtree, 23 Merchants’ quay, Dublin, put up in
4 oz pots, and inserted by Councillor Joseph P. in
attendance. Age has not withered it. )_ Say it again. Stuck on the pane two flies buzzed, stuck. Father O’Flynn
would make hares of them all. Let the lewd with faith and fervour
worship. Yes, yes: a woman too. —The others are putting on their hats, Mr Kernan said. Time has branded
them and fettered they are lodged in the room of the infinite
possibilities they have ousted. Learn anything if taken young. )_ Again! I feel sixteen! What a lark!
Let’s ring all the bells in Montague street. He wears a slate frockcoat with claret silk
lapels, a gorget of cream tulle, a green lowcut waistcoat, stock collar
with white kerchief, tight lavender trousers, patent pumps and canary
gloves. THE YEWS: _(Mingling their boughs. For him then not for. —Ay, ay, sighed again the latter personage, more cheerily this time
with some sort of a half smile for a brief duration only in the
direction of the questioner about the number. Isidore Arator and S. he. And one or two
sky pilots having an eye around that there was no goings on with the
females, hitting below the belt. Then, turning to Father Cowley with a nod, he
muttered sneeringly:

—That’s a pretty garment, isn’t it, for a summer’s day?

—Why, God eternally curse your soul, Ben Dollard growled furiously, I
threw out more clothes in my time than you ever saw. House of Keys. Terence and S. Had Bloom’s coin returned?

Never. )_

BLOOM: _Buenas noches, señorita Blanca, que calle es esta?_

THE FIGURE: (_Impassive, raises a signal arm. Look
in here. —And your lord and master?

Mrs Breen turned up her two large eyes. Thunder in the air. But be damned but they smelt her out and
swore her in on the spot a master mason. Harpooning flitches and hindquarters out of
it. MRS BELLINGHAM: _(In cap and seal coney mantle, wrapped up to the nose,
steps out of her brougham and scans through tortoiseshell
quizzing-glasses which she takes from inside her huge opossum muff. Emblem of luck. mangiD kcirtaP. )_

HOURS: You may touch my. Go back. Vico Road, Dalkey. No guts in it. Mind your steps
there. How did the centripetal remainer afford egress to the centrifugal
departer?

By inserting the barrel of an arruginated male key in the hole of an
unstable female lock, obtaining a purchase on the bow of the key and
turning its wards from right to left, withdrawing a bolt from its
staple, pulling inward spasmodically an obsolescent unhinged door and
revealing an aperture for free egress and free ingress. Jackson, W. Must be in a certain mood. —Your friends are inside, Mr Lidwell. They halted about the door of the mortuary chapel. He ambled Dollard, bulky slops, before them (hold that fellow with the:
hold him now) into the saloon. Tide you over. Mr Dedalus, famous father, laid by his dry filled pipe. Softsoaping. —Mrs B. For they garner the succulent berries of the hop and
mass and sift and bruise and brew them and they mix therewith sour
juices and bring the must to the sacred fire and cease not night or day
from their toil, those cunning brothers, lords of the vat. Got a short knock. Careless chap. They drove off towards the Loop Line bridge, her rich
gloved hand on the steel grip. Never, by this
hand, shall we behold such another. Why?
Probably lost cattle. Toothless Kinch,
the superman. My whetstone. Martin Cunningham’s
large eyes. I feel that
Russell is right. And he sat
him there about the hour of five o’clock to administer the law of the
brehons at the commission for all that and those parts to be holden in
and for the county of the city of Dublin. Enough. gutenberg. Virgin should say: or fingered only. Three pounds
three. And he interfered twict with my clothing. _

Brood of mockers: Photius, pseudomalachi, Johann Most. —Who is that?

—Your son and heir. And here what will you learn more?

Mr Deasy shook his head. Woman’s woe with wonder pondering. How much?

—What key? Six sharps?

—F sharp major, Ben Dollard said. VIRAG: Perfectly logical from his standpoint. Sweets to the. You’ll get into trouble. Parallax! _(With a nervous twitch of
his head. He has a
house there too. Sure, he’s out in John of God’s off his head, poor man. That was a nice nun there, really sweet face. In each hand he holds a
parcel, one containing a lukewarm pig’s crubeen, the other a cold
sheep’s trotter, sprinkled with wholepepper. He paid the debt of nature, God be merciful to him. Glittereyed his rufous skull close to his greencapped desklamp sought
the face bearded amid darkgreener shadow, an ollav, holyeyed. Or if not? If not? If still?

He bore no hate. —On the beeoteetom, laughed Cissy merrily. _(He fixes the manhole with a resolute stare. An
example?

The _Bath of the Nymph_ over the bed. How’s that? Leg before wicket. Do you know what I’m going to
tell you? What’s that, Mr O’Rourke? Do you know what? The Russians,
they’d only be an eight o’clock breakfast for the Japanese. He wants my money and my life, though want must be his master, for some
brutish empire of his. Suppose they wouldn’t feel anything after. )_

THE GULLS: Kaw kave kankury kake. FIRST WATCH: _(Draws his truncheon. Misery. He covered himself. —This for me? he asked gallantly. Tranquilla convent. He foresaw his pale body reclined in it at full, naked, in a womb of
warmth, oiled by scented melting soap, softly laved. —Never better, _a chara_, says he. BELLO: _(Jeers. Ay, meacock. _The Mystery Man on the Beach_, prize titbit story by Mr
Leopold Bloom. He inserted his left hand into the left lower pocket of
his waistcoat and extracted and replaced a silver coin (1 shilling),
placed there (presumably) on the occasion (17 October 1903) of the
interment of Mrs Emily Sinico, Sydney Parade. The door closed behind the outgoer. On more than one occasion, a dozen at
the lowest, near the North Bull at Dollymount he had remarked a
superannuated old salt, evidently derelict, seated habitually near the
not particularly redolent sea on the wall, staring quite obliviously at
it and it at him, dreaming of fresh woods and pastures new as someone
somewhere sings. )_ Ah!

RICHIE GOULDING: _(Bagweighted, passes the door. Yes,
yes, will tell you. The woman is inebriated. A fence more likely. Beer, beef, trample the
bibles. Milly delighted with Molly’s new blouse. A
girl. Better detach. I see you. Chrysostomos. _Soll und Haben_ by Gustav Freytag (black boards, Gothic characters,
cigarette coupon bookmark at p. I presume, my lord,
we shall receive the usual witnesses’ fees, shan’t we? We are
considerably out of pocket over this bally pressman johnny, this
jackdaw of Rheims, who has not even been to a university. Bobbob lapping it
for the inner alderman. Then bending to one side he presses a parcel against his ribs
and groans. )_ No, I was with the privates. )_ Big
comebig! Pirouette! Leopopold! _(Twittering. _(He coughs thoughtfully, drily. Mulligan (Hyg. Jacobs. For what reason did he meditate on schemes so difficult of realisation?

It was one of his axioms that similar meditations or the automatic
relation to himself of a narrative concerning himself or tranquil
recollection of the past when practised habitually before retiring for
the night alleviated fatigue and produced as a result sound repose and
renovated vitality. Base barreltone. —Well, I mean it, Haines said, still speaking to Stephen. )_

BLOOM: _(Solemnly. I am other I now. Hate company when
you. Ha? Did you, faith?

Mr Bloom raised two fingers doubtfully to his lips. )_ The mirror up to nature. —_Leopoldo or the Bloom is on the Rye,_ Lenehan said. But,
because loss is his gain, he passes on towards eternity in undiminished
personality, untaught by the wisdom he has written or by the laws he
has revealed. Were you in the Scotch house now?

—I was not, then, Mr Dedalus said, smiling. Howth a while ago amethyst. Olives cheaper: oranges need
artificial irrigation. So on. Gnawing their
vitals. Long John Fanning blew a plume of smoke from his lips. THE CAP: Which? Finish. A monstrous fine bit of cowflesh! I’ll be sworn she has rendezvoused
you. Woman. —But how does it work here, Tommy? he asked. Heart to heart talks. God ild you. Field seventeen. Grey horror seared his flesh. )_

THE BELLS: Heigho! Heigho!

BLOOM: _(Desperately. What? _Corpus:_ body. Beni, Bolivia. 9. He stopped at each, took out a
communion, shook a drop or two (are they in water?) off it and put it
neatly into her mouth. She leads him towards
the steps, drawing him by the odour of her armpits, the vice of her
painted eyes, the rustle of her slip in whose sinuous folds lurks the
lion reek of all the male brutes that have possessed her. Te
Virid. A shade of mauve tissuepaper
dims the light of the chandelier. The glint of my eye does it with
these breastsparklers. Bloom follows, returns. BLOOM: The stye I dislike. Imagine that in the early
morning at close range. I speak the tongue of a race the acme of whose mentality is
the maxim: time is money. U. )_ No. Falstaff was not a family
man. For an instant she was silent with rather sad downcast eyes. Now that’s a
coincidence. Yes I. Good oppor. A speck of dust on the patent leather of her boot. )_ So may the
Creator deal with me. PROFESSOR MACHUGH: _(From the presstable, coughs and calls. Sleep reveals the
worst side of everyone, children perhaps excepted. It implies that he is not
_compos mentis_. I’ll show you. 7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Sitting at his side Stephen solved out the problem. Knocking them all up out of their graves. His breath, birdsweet, good teeth
he’s proud of, fluted with plaintive woe. Whole route, see?

—Skin-the-Goat, Mr O’Madden Burke said. Where fallen archangels flung the stars of
their brows. Still, supposing he had his father’s gift as he more than suspected, it
opened up new vistas in his mind such as Lady Fingall’s Irish
industries, concert on the preceding Monday, and aristocracy in
general. Well, it is a long rest. L. I have just come from a funeral. Three hundred kicked the bucket. She looked. Purcell, O. Point of fact she could
actually claim Spanish nationality if she wanted, having been born in
(technically) Spain, i. Can’t
see! Who’s behind me? Out quickly, quickly! Do you see the tide flowing
quickly in on all sides, sheeting the lows of sand quickly,
shellcocoacoloured? If I had land under my feet. —Like that, Mr Bloom said, crossing his forefingers at the top. He
wouldn’t take any money either. Mac Somebody. He
sighed down his nose: they never understand. Aims. Wait. By Mr and Mrs L. But, said he, or it be long too she will bring
forth by God His bounty and have joy of her childing for she hath
waited marvellous long. Uninvited. Well cocks and
lions do the same and stags. —Show. Faith, he was. Wait to be wooed and won. First Lid, De, Cow, Ker, Doll, a
fifth: Lidwell, Si Dedalus, Bob Cowley, Kernan and big Ben Dollard. Health all! _À la vôtre_!

Golly, whatten tunket’s yon guy in the mackintosh? Dusty Rhodes. Eat. It’s all right. —No, Mr Bloom said, the son himself. A constable on his beat saluted Father Conmee and Father Conmee saluted
the constable. —He has nowhere to put it, you mug. ) and, in support of his political convictions, had
climbed up into a secure position amid the ramifications of a tree on
Northumberland road to see the entrance (2 February 1888) into the
capital of a demonstrative torchlight procession of 20,000
torchbearers, divided into 120 trade corporations, bearing 2000 torches
in escort of the marquess of Ripon and (honest) John Morley. Glorious tone he has still. )_ Have you
forgotten me?

BLOOM: Nes. —Yes, sir, Stephen said, turning back at the gate. Passionate nature though he was
Gerty could see that he had enormous control over himself. Cool hands. Did too. The Alaki then drank a lovingcup of
firstshot usquebaugh to the toast _Black and White_ from the skull of
his immediate predecessor in the dynasty Kakachakachak, surnamed Forty
Warts, after which he visited the chief factory of Cottonopolis and
signed his mark in the visitors’ book, subsequently executing a
charming old Abeakutic wardance, in the course of which he swallowed
several knives and forks, amid hilarious applause from the girl hands. Who’s getting it up?

The curate served. Whence, disappearing from the constellation of
the Northern Crown he would somehow reappear reborn above delta in the
constellation of Cassiopeia and after incalculable eons of
peregrination return an estranged avenger, a wreaker of justice on
malefactors, a dark crusader, a sleeper awakened, with financial
resources (by supposition) surpassing those of Rothschild or the silver
king. There’s whatdoyoucallhim out of. _

He lunged towards his messmates in turn a thick slice of bread, impaled
on his knife. Looking up again he set them free. He’s not one
of your common or garden. His eyes unhungrily saw shelves of tins: sardines, gaudy
lobsters’ claws. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1. He sued a fellowplayer for the price of a few bags of malt and exacted
his pound of flesh in interest for every money lent. William Doherty, D. Yes, indeed. Stopped again. High falutin stuff. I thought we
were bad here. Arbutus place: Pleasants street: pleasant
old times. He’s
the grandest thing yet and don’t you forget it. Her high long snore. D. It burns, the orient, a sky of sapphire, cleft by
the bronze flight of eagles. Distractions,
rookshooting, the Erse language (he recited some), laudanum (he raised
the phial to his lips), camping out. Parrots. The landlord
has the prior. Thou art Peter. You’re a rogue and I’m another. _ Women run him. Pwee! A wee little wind piped eeee. The Skibbereen father hereupon tore open his grey or unclean anyhow
shirt with his two hands and scratched away at his chest on which was
to be seen an image tattooed in blue Chinese ink intended to represent
an anchor. The goodness of your heart,
I feel sure, will dictate to you better than my inadequate words the
expressions which are most suitable to convey an emotion whose
poignancy, were I to give vent to my feelings, would deprive me even of
speech. Out. That one is going too. FIRST WATCH: _(Sternly. But for her the race of the world would have trampled him
underfoot, a squashed boneless snail. )_ Dance! Dance! _(She runs to
the pianola. He believed then that human life was infinitely perfectible,
eliminating these conditions?

There remained the generic conditions imposed by natural, as distinct
from human law, as integral parts of the human whole: the necessity of
destruction to procure alimentary sustenance: the painful character of
the ultimate functions of separate existence, the agonies of birth and
death: the monotonous menstruation of simian and (particularly) human
females extending from the age of puberty to the menopause: inevitable
accidents at sea, in mines and factories: certain very painful maladies
and their resultant surgical operations, innate lunacy and congenital
criminality, decimating epidemics: catastrophic cataclysms which make
terror the basis of human mentality: seismic upheavals the epicentres
of which are located in densely populated regions: the fact of vital
growth, through convulsions of metamorphosis, from infancy through
maturity to decay. )_ Here, what are you all gaping at?
Move on out of that. From its sluice in Wood quay wall
under Tom Devan’s office Poddle river hung out in fealty a tongue of
liquid sewage. C. The
Englishman, whose right eye was nearly closed, took his corner where he
was liberally drenched with water and when the bell went came on gamey
and brimful of pluck, confident of knocking out the fistic Eblanite in
jigtime. —No suffering, he said. _


—And a barbarous bloody barbarian he is too, says the citizen. J. _(His throat twitches. Not like Ecce Homo. My
colleen bawn. We begin to be interested in Mrs S. Must get. —But the worst of all, Mr Power said, is the man who takes his own
life. Then as for the other he had heard not so long before the
same identical lingo as he told Stephen how he simply but effectually
silenced the offender. The lean old ones tougher. Effect on the sexual. By God, she had Bloom cornered. Giants,
though that is rather a far cry, you see once in a way, Marcella the
midget queen. I’m hyperborean as much as you. I must really. And the franklin that had drunken said,
Expecting each moment to be her next. That memory, _Venus
and Adonis_, lay in the bedchamber of every light-of-love in London. Hope
it’s not too big bring on piles again. Pay your Easter duty. Perceive. At Newcomen bridge Father Conmee stepped into an outward bound tram for
he disliked to traverse on foot the dingy way past Mud Island. We did great biz yesterday. Love’s
     Old
     Sweet
     Song
     Comes lo-ove’s old. Seventh heaven. THE NYMPH: In my presence. Blazes Boylan looked into the cut of her blouse. Ripening now. To
donate, please visit: www. Fat folds of neck,
fat, neck, fat, neck. The horse was just then. Shrift, T. Something inside them goes pop. M. They like
them sizeable. Some women, instance, warn you off when they have
their period. —Metempsychosis?

—Yes. Apoplectic. Can be rude too. _(He chases his tail. Possible, especially there, it
was as she lived there. Cut your hand open. The way her crooked
skirt swings at each whack. In the dark. But I, entelechy, form of forms, am I by memory because under
everchanging forms. BLOOM: My beloved subjects, a new era is about to dawn. Lots must be killed in storms,
telegraph wires. Want to get some wind off my chest first. Ah!

Devils they are when that’s coming on them. Under the patronage of the
late Father Mathew. )_ Was he insulting you?

STEPHEN: Addressed her in vocative feminine. He watched her pour into the measure and thence into the jug rich white
milk, not hers. The Beaufoy books of love and great possessions, with which
your lordship is doubtless familiar, are a household word throughout
the kingdom. She would
make the great sacrifice. Yes. BLOOM: _(Coughs gravely. Where does he live at present? I gathered in the course of
conversation that he had moved. che parlar ti piace
     Mentre che il vento, come fa, si tace. In old age she takes up with gospellers (one stayed
with her at New Place and drank a quart of sack the town council paid
for but in which bed he slept it skills not to ask) and heard she had a
soul. To whom young Stephen had these words
following: Murmur, sirs, is eke oft among lay folk. A kind of a
bridge. Boys, do it now. Resting his feet on the dwarf wall, he climbed over the
area railings, compressed his hat on his head, grasped two points at
the lower union of rails and stiles, lowered his body gradually by its
length of five feet nine inches and a half to within two feet ten
inches of the area pavement and allowed his body to move freely in
space by separating himself from the railings and crouching in
preparation for the impact of the fall. Passing out he whispered to J. )_ Shite! _(His features grow drawn and
grey and old. Mr F. No time to do her hair drinking sloppy tea with a book of
poetry. Got your lett and flow. Get a light snack in Davy Byrne’s. Besides they say if the flower withers she
wears she’s a flirt. Aristotle was once Plato’s schoolboy. It is. J. The other drunk was
blinking up at a statue of Our Saviour the widow had got put up. BLOOM: _(Scared, hats himself, steps back, then, plucking at his heart
and lifting his right forearm on the square, he gives the sign and
dueguard of fellowcraft. m. The supreme question about a
work of art is out of how deep a life does it spring. Pat paid for diner’s popcorked bottle: and over tumbler, tray and
popcorked bottle ere he went he whispered, bald and bothered, with miss
Douce. If I get Billy Prescott’s ad: two fifteen. Why did he not leave her
his best bed if he wished her to snore away the rest of her nights in
peace?

—It is clear that there were two beds, a best and a secondbest, Mr
Secondbest Best said finely. No, no: not that. And who was he, tell us? A nobody, two pair back and passages, at seven
shillings a week, and he covered with all kinds of breastplates bidding
defiance to the world. —That’s folk, he said very earnestly, for your book, Haines. Angry tulips with you darling manflower punish your
cactus if you don’t please poor forgetmenot how I long violets to dear
roses when we soon anemone meet all naughty nightstalk wife Martha’s
perfume. A throstle. It ill becomes him to preach that
gospel. He other
side of her. Those literary etherial people they are all. I hear. —Talking about the invincibles, he said, did you see that some hawkers
were up before the recorder. —You can keep it, Mr Bloom said. Loose
tobaccoshreds catch fire: a flame and acrid smoke light our corner. J. Just a question of
custom shah of Persia. Wit. Isn’t that what we’re told. The horse
harness jingles. Did you leave anything on the fire?

—The kidney! he cried suddenly. Damn good gin that was. If he considers it important it will go in. )_ Two bar. Till now we had thought of her, if
at all, as a patient Griselda, a Penelope stayathome. I knows a lady
what’s got a white swelling quick as I claps eyes on her. Turn Now On. Fourbottle men. When was it I got it made up
last? Wait. All the lordly residences in
the vicinity of the palace of justice were demolished and that noble
edifice itself, in which at the time of the catastrophe important legal
debates were in progress, is literally a mass of ruins beneath which it
is to be feared all the occupants have been buried alive. But, begob, Joe was equal to
the occasion. Piano downstairs. p: up on it to take a li. girl (R. Bald Pat carried
two diners’ drinks, Richie and Poldy. That’s not
life for men and women, insult and hatred. See? It all works out. Messages of
condolence and sympathy are being hourly received from all parts of the
different continents and the sovereign pontiff has been graciously
pleased to decree that a special _missa pro defunctis_ shall be
celebrated simultaneously by the ordinaries of each and every cathedral
church of all the episcopal dioceses subject to the spiritual authority
of the Holy See in suffrage of the souls of those faithful departed who
have been so unexpectedly called away from our midst. She taunts him. E. _(Harshly,
his pupils waxing. I paid my way. Glory be to God. At Annesley bridge the tram halted and, when it was about to go, an old
woman rose suddenly from her place to alight. Stopgap. Of what did the duumvirate deliberate during their itinerary?

Music, literature, Ireland, Dublin, Paris, friendship, woman,
prostitution, diet, the influence of gaslight or the light of arc and
glowlamps on the growth of adjoining paraheliotropic trees, exposed
corporation emergency dustbuckets, the Roman catholic church,
ecclesiastical celibacy, the Irish nation, jesuit education, careers,
the study of medicine, the past day, the maleficent influence of the
presabbath, Stephen’s collapse. There again: the overtone following through the air. A sailorman,
rustbearded, sips from a beaker rum and eyes her. You wouldn’t see a trace of them or their language
anywhere in Europe except in a _cabinet d’aisance. O, those transparent! Besides they don’t know. Safe home!

THE HORSE: _(Neighs. And my wife has the typhoid. Bohee brothers. Lover of an ideal or a perversion, like José he
kills the real Carmen. Make themselves thoroughly at home. I never
exactly understood. That the language question should take precedence of the economic
question. Canon O’Hanlon put the Blessed Sacrament back into the tabernacle and
genuflected and the choir sang _Laudate Dominum omnes gentes_ and then
he locked the tabernacle door because the benediction was over and
Father Conroy handed him his hat to put on and crosscat Edy asked
wasn’t she coming but Jacky Caffrey called out:

—O, look, Cissy!

And they all looked was it sheet lightning but Tommy saw it too over
the trees beside the church, blue and then green and purple. Take thou this noble. He came in quickly and bumped
against Lenehan who was struggling up with the second tissue. org/license. Have you the design?

—I can get it, Mr Bloom said. _(Several highly respectable Dublin ladies hold up improper letters
received from Bloom. because they have damn bad cakes. Every day we must do homage to
her. Martha
and Mary will be a little chilly at first in such delicate thighcasing
but the frilly flimsiness of lace round your bare knees will remind
you. Sonnez la. How goes the time? Quarter past. They are not even registered. He took the hilt of his ashplant, lunging with it softly, dallying
still. Stephen seizes Florry and turns
with her. He
raised his eyes and met the stare of a bilious clock. It does her
all right. Turbaned faces going by. In sleep the wet sign calls her hour, bids her rise. BLOOM: _(Stooping, picks up and hands a box of matches. She snakes her neck, nestling. From the door of the Red Bank the
white disc of a straw hat flashed reply: spruce figure: passed. Hockey at ten, sir. _(He murmurs. Steal upon larks. Then he rubs his hand in his eye and says he:

—What’s your opinion of the times?

Doing the rapparee and Rory of the hill. —_Sorrow from me seemed to depart. Good fallback. Little
monkeys common as ditchwater. I’m not so sure about that. —Give us one of your prime stinkers, Terry, says Joe. The
Bruce’s brother, Thomas Fitzgerald, silken knight, Perkin Warbeck,
York’s false scion, in breeches of silk of whiterose ivory, wonder of a
day, and Lambert Simnel, with a tail of nans and sutlers, a scullion
crowned. —What is a ghost? Stephen said with tingling energy. He eyed and saw afar on Essex bridge a gay hat
riding on a jaunting car. Sign a will and leave us any coin you have!
If you have none see you damn well get it, steal it, rob it! We’ll bury
you in our shrubbery jakes where you’ll be dead and dirty with old Cuck
Cohen, my stepnephew I married, the bloody old gouty procurator and
sodomite with a crick in his neck, and my other ten or eleven husbands,
whatever the buggers’ names were, suffocated in the one cesspool. 11. RUDOLPH: _(With contempt. Old Chatterton, the vicechancellor, is his granduncle or his
greatgranduncle. No-one about. Glad
to see us go we give them such trouble coming. Mr Bloom glanced from his angry moustache to Mr Power’s mild
face and Martin Cunningham’s eyes and beard, gravely shaking. BELLO: _(Guffaws. She would try to understand him because men
were so different. Ga Ga Gara. It shot down the groove,
wobbled a while, ceased, ogling them: six. _(Lynch lifts up her skirt and
white petticoat with the wand. And begob there he was passing the door with his books under his oxter
and the wife beside him and Corny Kelleher with his wall eye looking in
as they went past, talking to him like a father, trying to sell him a
secondhand coffin. My poor little pres: p. Roun wi the nappy. Take him in tow, platter face and
a large apron. This will end. Three. His wife, Father Conmee
supposed. Flowers, incense, candles melting. Could buy one of those silk petticoats for Molly, colour of her new
garters. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook. The chap in the macintosh is thirteen. —Because she never let them in, Mr Deasy said solemnly. Last act of _Lucia. No prince charming is her beau ideal to lay a rare and wondrous
love at her feet but rather a manly man with a strong quiet face who
had not found his ideal, perhaps his hair slightly flecked with grey,
and who would understand, take her in his sheltering arms, strain her
to him in all the strength of his deep passionate nature and comfort
her with a long long kiss. Can’t
bury in the air however. People ought to help. But glad to communicate
with the outside world. —The lad stood to attention anyhow, he said with a sigh. —Why, the sailor said, shifting his partially chewed plug. Shouldering their bags they trudged, the red Egyptians. )_ You’re after hitting me. And the women, fear of God in
their faces. _(The jarvey chucks the reins and raises his whip encouragingly. Pom. He proposed to set up there a national fertilising
farm to be named _Omphalos_ with an obelisk hewn and erected after the
fashion of Egypt and to offer his dutiful yeoman services for the
fecundation of any female of what grade of life soever who should there
direct to him with the desire of fulfilling the functions of her
natural. Klook Klook Klook. You seem to have enjoyed
yourself. Fitzharris. _There is not in
this wide world a vallee_. All his alabaster lilypots. And, begob, I saw his physog do a peep in and then slidder off again. It was a historic and a hefty battle when Myler and Percy were
scheduled to don the gloves for the purse of fifty sovereigns. Shelter, for the night. O, she need not trouble. ZOE: _(Peering at Bloom’s palm. All
dead names. Tranquility sudden, vast,
candescent: form of forms. Mr Kernan assured him. They are lovely. _(He rushes towards Stephen, fist outstretched, and strikes him in the
face. Laughter of men from the lane. Shah of Persia liked
that best. Yes, sir. F. P. Rinderpest. He comes from his dark corner. But had to be. Not leave thee. C. Pull the
pillow away and finish it off on the floor since he’s doomed. is the bright particular star, isn’t she? says Joe. We went over to their
playbox, Haines and I, the plumbers’ hall. Gift of
nature. A MAN OF HIGH MORALE


—Professor Magennis was speaking to me about you, J. Liver and bacon. What do they think when they hear music? Way to catch rattlesnakes. 35 a. —I wonder did he ever put it out of sight, says Joe. He knows. You look like communards. —If you fail try again, Edy Boardman said. Know her smell in a thousand. —Call it, wait, the professor said, opening his long lips wide to
reflect. All those animals could be taken
in trucks down to the boats. _Tableau!_
That would have been a very charming exposé for a gentleman like that
to witness. —Listen! she bade him. Who found them out? Garbage, sewage they feed on. And the other little
man? His name was Brunny Lynam. —How did that Canada swindle case go off? says Joe. The foreman thought for an instant. Or ask you what
someone was going to say when he changed his mind and stopped. His
gouty paws plumped chords. Of course aristocrats, then the others copy to be in the
fashion. Were other anapocryphal illustrious sons of the law and children of a
selected or rejected race mentioned?

Felix Bartholdy Mendelssohn (composer), Baruch Spinoza (philosopher),
Mendoza (pugilist), Ferdinand Lassalle (reformer, duellist). The Malahide road was quiet. Returning not the
same. Must be the focus where the rays cross. Her glazing eyes, staring out of death, to shake and bend my soul. At the foot of the ladder Buck Mulligan asked:

—Did you bring the key?

—I have it, Stephen said, preceding them. Please tell me what perfume does your wife. —He’s Irish, the seaman bold affirmed, staring still in much the same
way and nodding. Do you not think it, Stephen? Theosophos
told me so, Stephen answered, whom in a previous existence Egyptian
priests initiated into the mysteries of karmic law. But the
braggart boaster cried that an old Nobodaddy was in his cups it was
muchwhat indifferent and he would not lag behind his lead. Don’t forget to pray for him. You’re looking splendid. —What? Eh? Corny Kelleher said. Your dean
of studies holds he was a holy Roman. Hooray! Ay! Whrrwhee!

—What? Mr Deasy asked. Return, return, Clan Milly: forget me not, O Milesian. The way of all our old
industries. And they teach the serpents there to entwine
themselves up on long sticks out of the ground and of the scales of
these serpents they brew out a brewage like to mead. The seabirds screaming. —I know, Mr Dedalus said, nodding. Lou
heap good man. Lord, they are weary; and, whispered to,
they sigh. In ward wary the watcher hearing come that man mildhearted eft rising
with swire ywimpled to him her gate wide undid. Here I watched the birds for augury. At four. —The Irish, for choice, retorted the cabby like Campbell, facial
blemishes apart. C. As for the face it was a speaking likeness in
expression but it did not do justice to her figure which came in for a
lot of notice usually and which did not come out to the best advantage
in that getup. _ You’re hot! You’re scalding! The left hand nearest the
heart. Whores screech. BLOOM: _(Angrily. —Married to the greasy nose! she yelled. And it need not detract from the
other by one iota as, being his own master, he would have heaps of time
to practise literature in his spare moments when desirous of so doing
without its clashing with his vocal career or containing anything
derogatory whatsoever as it was a matter for himself alone. He broke away. Not in the bed. HORATIO IS CYNOSURE THIS FAIR JUNE DAY


J. The hours of noon follow in amber gold. Choirboy style. Tranquil brightness. Egypt. —O, Mr Bloom said. Nay, that last play was written or being written while his
brother Edmund lay dying in Southwark. But this was altogether different from a thing
like that because there was all the difference because she could almost
feel him draw her face to his and the first quick hot touch of his
handsome lips. It’s Greek: from the Greek. —No, Mr Bloom repeated again, I wouldn’t personally repose much trust
in that boon companion of yours who contributes the humorous element,
Dr Mulligan, as a guide, philosopher and friend if I were in your
shoes. Now dearest Gerald uses pinky greasepaint
and gilds his eyelids. )_ O
cold! O shivery! It was your ambrosial beauty. Stephen Protomartyr and S. —Whom do you suspect? he challenged. On the duke’s
lawn, entreated by an English visitor, she declined to permit him to
make and take away her photographic image (objection not stated). What distinct different memories had each of her now eight years
deceased?

The older, her bezique cards and counters, her Skye terrier, her
suppositious wealth, her lapses of responsiveness and incipient
catarrhal deafness: the younger, her lamp of colza oil before the
statue of the Immaculate Conception, her green and maroon brushes for
Charles Stewart Parnell and for Michael Davitt, her tissue papers. My lips closed. dein_. Did he then accept as an article of belief the theory of astrological
influences upon sublunary disasters?

It seemed to him as possible of proof as of confutation and the
nomenclature employed in its selenographical charts as attributable to
verifiable intuition as to fallacious analogy: the lake of dreams, the
sea of rains, the gulf of dews, the ocean of fecundity. Hope he’s not looking, cute as a rat. O’Molloy. —Or his jennyass, Buck Mulligan antiphoned. Remind him of home sweet home. She used to say Ben Dollard had a base
barreltone voice. He
slapped a piebald haunch quivering near him and cried:

—Woa, sonny!

He turned to J. Who said four?

Cowley’s red lugs and bulging apple in the door of the sheriff’s
office. With the approval of the
eminent poet, Mr Geo. Night. Shall we see you
at Moore’s tonight? Piper is coming. The black panther was himself the ghost of his own father. The crooked skirt
swinging, whack by whack by whack. Go home. —Tom Kernan was immense last night, he said. 1. That’ll be two pounds ten about
two pounds eight. Perhaps it was
an old flame he was in mourning for from the days beyond recall. Russell, one guinea, Cousins, ten shillings, Bob
Reynolds, half a guinea, Koehler, three guineas, Mrs MacKernan, five
weeks’ board. At the siege of Ross his father, at Gorey all his
brothers fell. Image of him. I told her to pitch her voice
against that corner. Four?

O’clock. The whirr of flapping leathern bands and hum of dynamos from the
powerhouse urged Stephen to be on. Instance enthusiasts. A voiceless song sang from within, singing:

—. What did Ignatius
Gallaher do? I’ll tell you. Women buzz round it like
flies round treacle. _(He makes
a masonic sign. Exercise your mnemotechnic. I don’t see anything. Other hoofs and creaking wheels started behind. Brewery barge with export stout. Constable 57C, on his beat, stood to pass the time of day. Wants to go out. ? Lukewarm water. It is an age of exhausted whoredom groping for its god. Dolphin’s Barn: the
transliterated name and address of the addresser of the 3 letters in
reversed alphabetic boustrophedonic punctated quadrilinear cryptogram
(vowels suppressed) N. )

BEAUFOY: _(Drawls. Afraid to
pass a remark on him. Good to rest
once in a way. She’s worth ten, fifteen, more, a
pound. THE CITIZEN: _(With a huge emerald muffler and shillelagh, calls. _(Leering, Gerty Macdowell limps forward. —Have you seen the rock of Gibraltar? Mr Bloom inquired. Whitehot passion was in that face,
passion silent as the grave, and it had made her his. Stephen freed his arm
quietly. _Mi trema un poco
il_. Alas the voice rose, sighing, changed: loud, full, shining, proud. Far away in the west the sun was setting and the last glow of
all too fleeting day lingered lovingly on sea and strand, on the proud
promontory of dear old Howth guarding as ever the waters of the bay, on
the weedgrown rocks along Sandymount shore and, last but not least, on
the quiet church whence there streamed forth at times upon the
stillness the voice of prayer to her who is in her pure radiance a
beacon ever to the stormtossed heart of man, Mary, star of the sea. Did it flow?

Yes. Rub in August: good idea: horseshow month. They could: and watch it all the way
down, swallow a pin sometimes come out of the ribs years after, tour
round the body changing biliary duct spleen squirting liver gastric
juice coils of intestines like pipes. What?
Swindled them all, skivvies and badhachs from the county Meath, ay, and
his own kidney too. A bridge is across a river. Just one word more. J. _(He pats divers pockets. Musical porkers. Knows the taste of them now. —Do you consider, by the by, he said, thoughtfully selecting a faded
photo which he laid on the table, that a Spanish type?

Stephen, obviously addressed, looked down on the photo showing a large
sized lady with her fleshy charms on evidence in an open fashion as she
was in the full bloom of womanhood in evening dress cut ostentatiously
low for the occasion to give a liberal display of bosom, with more than
vision of breasts, her full lips parted and some perfect teeth,
standing near, ostensibly with gravity, a piano on the rest of which
was _In Old Madrid_, a ballad, pretty in its way, which was then all
the vogue. P. Changing hands. You just buy one of these machines. The rebuke of some
kind was clearer than the other part. His nostrils arched
themselves for prey. He’s a safe man, I’d say. _(He gives up the ghost. )_

STEPHEN:

     The fox crew, the cocks flew,
     The bells in heaven
     Were striking eleven. Uniform that does it. 1. )_

BLOOM: A talisman. Enter Magee Mor Matthew, a rugged rough rugheaded kern, in
strossers with a buttoned codpiece, his nether stocks bemired with
clauber of ten forests, a wand of wilding in his hand. That was your contribution to literature. _ Seven is dear to the
mystic mind. Would you do what
he did? A boat would be near, a lifebuoy. I’ll call later in the day and
I’ll take one of these soaps. Sauce for the gander. Yes, bottle of cider. His lids came down on the lower rims of his irides. Page of an old copybook. London,
printed for R. Were you in a funk?

—I was, Stephen said with energy and growing fear. Quote the textual terms of this notice. I could
mention Meagher’s just to remind him. Child, man, effigy. Now where the blue
hell am I bringing her beyond the veil? Into the ineluctable modality
of the ineluctable visuality. )_

BLOOM: Don’t be cruel, nurse! Don’t!

BELLO: _(Twisting. I just eh. And Mr? He opened the letter
within the newspaper. Alacrity she served. It’s so French. _ Yes, I think he has that queer thing genius. Si. He wailed:

—And we to be there, mavrone, and you to be unbeknownst sending us your
conglomerations the way we to have our tongues out a yard long like the
drouthy clerics do be fainting for a pussful. My Irish
Molly, O. There too, opposite to
him, was Lynch whose countenance bore already the stigmata of early
depravity and premature wisdom. The carcass lay on his path. Limit of the diaphane in. _(He taps
his brow. Speaking. _(He turns on his left side, sighing, doubling himself together. p: up. )

BELLA: _(Laughing. Y. There’s a bloody big foxy thief beyond by the
garrison church at the corner of Chicken lane—old Troy was just giving
me a wrinkle about him—lifted any God’s quantity of tea and sugar to
pay three bob a week said he had a farm in the county Down off a
hop-of-my-thumb by the name of Moses Herzog over there near Heytesbury
street. Many bonafide
travellers and ownerless dogs come near him and defile him. Heat (convected), a mode of motion developed by such combustion,
was constantly and increasingly conveyed from the source of
calorification to the liquid contained in the vessel, being radiated
through the uneven unpolished dark surface of the metal iron, in part
reflected, in part absorbed, in part transmitted, gradually raising the
temperature of the water from normal to boiling point, a rise in
temperature expressible as the result of an expenditure of 72 thermal
units needed to raise 1 pound of water from 50° to 212° Fahrenheit. Ineluctable modality of the visible. That Mulligan is a
contaminated bloody doubledyed ruffian by all accounts. Must be
thrilling from the air. Checkmate. Stephen laughed. Highly unlikely of course there was even a shadow
of truth in the stones and, even supposing, he thought a return highly
inadvisable, all things considered. Twenty. (They die. Keyes, you see. Florence MacCabe takes a
crubeen and a bottle of double X for supper every Saturday. _The Story of the Heavens_ by Sir Robert Ball (blue cloth). In the mild breezes of the west and of the
east the lofty trees wave in different directions their firstclass
foliage, the wafty sycamore, the Lebanonian cedar, the exalted
planetree, the eugenic eucalyptus and other ornaments of the arboreal
world with which that region is thoroughly well supplied. Sir
Thomas Deane was the Greek architecture. Suppose he was
consumptive. _ No. D. )_ She is right, our sister. Night. Wallow in it. Once a wooer,
twice a wooer. They see
the roofs and argue about where the different churches are: Rathmines’
blue dome, Adam and Eve’s, saint Laurence O’Toole’s. Both admitted the
alternately stimulating and obtunding influence of heterosexual
magnetism. A gift to his guest of one of the four
lady’s handkerchiefs, if and when ascertained to be in a presentable
condition. Failed to the tune of ten thousand pounds. Her fansticks clicking. Practice dwindling. )_ For the honour of God! And is that Bloom? He
scarcely looks thirtyone. P. Think that pugnosed driver did it
out of spite. Here. )_ Mankind is incorrigible. _(To himself. Remember. BLOOM: _(Quietly. Dolphin’s Barn, the
charades. A card _Unfurnished
Apartments_ slipped from the sash and fell. The departing guest was the recipient of a hearty ovation, many of
those who were present being visibly moved when the select orchestra of
Irish pipes struck up the wellknown strains of _Come Back to Erin_,
followed immediately by _Rakóczsy’s March_. We hand you crisp five pound note. O. J. The coroner’s sunlit ears, big
and hairy. )_ The end of
the world!

_(A female tepid effluvium leaks out from her. Are you a god or a
doggone clod? If the second advent came to Coney Island are we ready?
Florry Christ, Stephen Christ, Zoe Christ, Bloom Christ, Kitty Christ,
Lynch Christ, it’s up to you to sense that cosmic force. ORTHOGRAPHICAL


Want to be sure of his spelling. Peasants outside. What was the end of Pyrrhus?

—End of Pyrrhus, sir?

—I know, sir. No. )_ A spy. Door closed. He let the bloodsmeared paper fall
to her and dropped the kidney amid the sizzling butter sauce. Get up! Last
day! Then every fellow mousing around for his liver and his lights and
the rest of his traps. O. —Do you understand how to do them now? he asked. J. Softly she gave me in my mouth the seedcake warm and
chewed. We
won every time! North Cork and Spanish officers!

—Where was that, Myles? Ned Lambert asked with a reflective glance at
his toecaps. I taught him to sing _The boys of Kilkenny
are stout roaring blades_. They comprised astronomical kaleidoscopes exhibiting the
twelve constellations of the zodiac from Aries to Pisces, miniature
mechanical orreries, arithmetical gelatine lozenges, geometrical to
correspond with zoological biscuits, globemap playing balls,
historically costumed dolls. Tap. Try it. Her
olive face is heavy, slightly sweated and fullnosed with orangetainted
nostrils. —I know that fellow, says Joe, from bitter experience. So Bloom lets on he heard nothing and he starts talking with Joe,
telling him he needn’t trouble about that little matter till the first
but if he would just say a word to Mr Crawford. Ah no, that’s the soap. List, list, O list!

BLOOM: The voice is the voice of Esau. Pocket Guide to Killarney. —Who knows? he said. Edy Boardman was noticing it too because she was squinting at Gerty,
half smiling, with her specs like an old maid, pretending to nurse the
baby. )_
Again! _(He pants cringing. Our players are creating a
new art for Europe like the Greeks or M. Houses of decay, mine, his and all. )_ Face reminds me of his poor mother. And one more to hail him: _ave, rabbi_: the Tinahely twelve. )_ We
are observed. Got round him all right. Vamp of her stockings. It is immense, supersumptuous. Why, firstly and secondly, did he not consult the work in question?

Firstly, in order to exercise mnemotechnic: secondly, because after an
interval of amnesia, when, seated at the central table, about to
consult the work in question, he remembered by mnemotechnic the name of
the military engagement, Plevna. —Sweet almond oil and tincture of benzoin, Mr Bloom said, and then
orangeflower water. I hate dirty eaters. _(He
glares. Tips, evening dress, halfnaked ladies. Tap

—Very, Mr Dedalus said, staring hard at a headless sardine. Couldn’t eat a morsel here. Mrs Marion. I seem to know the name. )_ Permit, _brevi manu_,
my sight is somewhat troubled. Stephen, shielding the gaping
wounds which the words had left in his heart, said very coldly:

—I am not thinking of the offence to my mother. Into her. Herring’s blush. And, what
though murdered and betrayed, bewept by all frail tender hearts for,
Dane or Dubliner, sorrow for the dead is the only husband from whom
they refuse to be divorced. )_

     White thy fambles, red thy gan
     And thy quarrons dainty is. Have to be spoonfed first. Sullivan, Cleopatra, Savourneen Deelish,
Julius Caesar, Paracelsus, sir Thomas Lipton, William Tell,
Michelangelo Hayes, Muhammad, the Bride of Lammermoor, Peter the
Hermit, Peter the Packer, Dark Rosaleen, Patrick W. Eh? And that absurd
orangekeyed utensil which has only one handle. Leop. Fellowcountrymen, _sgenl
inn ban bata coisde gan capall. Method in his madness. He
shore away the burnt flesh and flung it to the cat. Conmee himself! He was walking by the
hedge, reading, I think a brevier book with, I doubt not, a witty
letter in it from Glycera or Chloe to keep the page. With what sensations did Bloom contemplate in rotation these objects?

With strain, elevating a candlestick: with pain, feeling on his right
temple a contused tumescence: with attention, focussing his gaze on a
large dull passive and a slender bright active: with solicitation,
bending and downturning the upturned rugfringe: with amusement,
remembering Dr Malachi Mulligan’s scheme of colour containing the
gradation of green: with pleasure, repeating the words and antecedent
act and perceiving through various channels of internal sensibility the
consequent and concomitant tepid pleasant diffusion of gradual
discolouration. He calls again. _ Stinks
like a polecat. She took a penknife out of her pocket
     And cut off his little head. Wreck their lives. What reminiscences of a human subject suffering from progressive
melancholia did these objects evoke in Bloom?

An old man, widower, unkempt of hair, in bed, with head covered,
sighing: an infirm dog, Athos: aconite, resorted to by increasing doses
of grains and scruples as a palliative of recrudescent neuralgia: the
face in death of a septuagenarian, suicide by poison. Buck Mulligan gleefully bent back, laughing to the dark eavesdropping
ceiling. —See? he said. Growl angry, then shriek
cursing (want to have wadding or something in his no don’t she cried),
then all of a soft sudden wee little wee little pipy wind. BOYLAN’S VOICE: _(Sweetly, hoarsely, in the pit of his stomach. We enjoyed ourselves immensely. Feel a gap. —Here you are, says Alf, chucking out the rhino. Bet you what you like he has a hundred shillings to five on. —I seen a Chinese one time, related the doughty narrator, that had
little pills like putty and he put them in the water and they opened
and every pill was something different. )_ Hello, seventyseven
eightfour. _

Blazes Boylan presented to the leaders’ skyblue frontlets and high
action a skyblue tie, a widebrimmed straw hat at a rakish angle and a
suit of indigo serge. I’ll rub that in. Bolting to get it over. —Four shining sovereigns, Buck Mulligan cried with delight. Talbot repeated:

_—Through the dear might of Him that walked the waves,

Through the dear might. —Will you tell him he can kiss my arse? Myles Crawford said throwing
out his arm for emphasis. )_ Why not? The bold soldier boy. 33 a. Peter. Instinct. —That what’s I mean, says the citizen. )_ Sister. —Good day again, Buck Mulligan said. Snivel. Throwing them up in the air to catch them. I beg your pardon. Example?

She disliked umbrella with rain, he liked woman with umbrella, she
disliked new hat with rain, he liked woman with new hat, he bought new
hat with rain, she carried umbrella with new hat. You watch them chaps. Long John. What suggested scene was then reconstructed by Bloom?

The Queen’s Hotel, Ennis, county Clare, where Rudolph Bloom (Rudolf
Virag) died on the evening of the 27 June 1886, at some hour unstated,
in consequence of an overdose of monkshood (aconite) selfadministered
in the form of a neuralgic liniment composed of 2 parts of aconite
liniment to 1 of chloroform liniment (purchased by him at 10. Learn a lot teaching others. Gob, we won’t be let even do that much itself. I begin to like them at that age. _(Closeclutched swift swifter with glareblareflare scudding they
scootlootshoot lumbering by. You larn that go off of they there Frenchy
bilks? Won’t wash here for nuts nohow. Their frugal meal. —Our swim first, Buck Mulligan said. )_ Aha, yes. Lenehan, rising to tiptoe, fanned his face rapidly with the rustling
tissues. How else could
Aubrey’s ostler and callboy get rich quick? All events brought grist to
his mill. Her first
birthday away from home. At least it’s not settled yet. Might be
the one bit me, come back to see. Thou lost one. Stephen had not noticed her and shrugged his shoulders, merely
remarking:

—In this country people sell much more than she ever had and do a
roaring trade. Must be strange not to see her. She took his first embraces. Why did you enclose the stamps? I am
awfully angry with you. Pan’s hour, the faunal noon. Aphrodis. Muslin prints,
silkdames and dowagers, jingle of harnesses, hoofthuds lowringing in
the baking causeway. Mr Bloom, champing, standing, looked upon his sigh. —That’s the new Messiah for Ireland! says the citizen. Good hidingplace for treasure. Then wotted
he nought of that other land which is called Believe-on-Me, that is the
land of promise which behoves to the king Delightful and shall be for
ever where there is no death and no birth neither wiving nor mothering
at which all shall come as many as believe on it? Yes, Pious had told
him of that land and Chaste had pointed him to the way but the reason
was that in the way he fell in with a certain whore of an eyepleasing
exterior whose name, she said, is Bird-in-the-Hand and she beguiled him
wrongways from the true path by her flatteries that she said to him as,
Ho, you pretty man, turn aside hither and I will show you a brave
place, and she lay at him so flatteringly that she had him in her grot
which is named Two-in-the-Bush or, by some learned, Carnal
Concupiscence. —Consider that done, says Joe. We gave him that idea, he added to J. —I don’t mince words, do I? Mr Deasy asked as Stephen read on. The lacquey lifted his handbell and shook it:

—Barang!

Bang of the lastlap bell spurred the halfmile wheelmen to their sprint. Goodbye, dear. Ware hawks for the chap puking. Specially in these black clothes feel it more. ZOE: _(Pointing. Cook’s son, goodbye. Remember the summer morning she
was born, running to knock up Mrs Thornton in Denzille street. They say he never put on the city marshal’s
uniform since he got the job. Twicreakingly analysis he corantoed off. Up. Is eight about. I’m not equal to Thomas Aquinas
and the fiftyfive reasons he has made out to prop it up. A cloud began to cover the sun slowly, wholly. All. —For God’s sake! Mr Dedalus exclaimed in fright. You are falling. Home always breaks up when the mother
goes. )_ Ireland’s sweetheart, the
king of Spain’s daughter, alanna. _Yes,_ he said. No more patriotism of barspongers and dropsical
impostors. _(The freckled face of Sweny, the druggist, appears in the disc of the
soapsun. )_ Don’t do so on any account, Mrs
Talboys! He should be soundly trounced!

THE HONOURABLE MRS MERVYN TALBOYS: _(Unbuttoning her gauntlet
violently. Stephen’s embarrassed hand moved
over the shells heaped in the cold stone mortar: whelks and money
cowries and leopard shells: and this, whorled as an emir’s turban, and
this, the scallop of saint James. Tired I feel now. Round Rabaiotti’s halted ice
gondola stunted men and women squabble. BELLO: _(Laughs mockingly. That’s music too. Whatever in
that one case done commodiously done was. _
Slower the mare went up the hill by the Rotunda, Rutland square. The
other four acts of that play hang limply from that first. Your postprandial, do you know that word?
Postprandial. Selling tapes in my cousin, Peter Paul M’Swiney’s. S. THE HONOURABLE MRS MERVYN TALBOYS: _(Laughs derisively. The blind of the window was drawn aside. E. What celestial sign was by both simultaneously observed?

A star precipitated with great apparent velocity across the firmament
from Vega in the Lyre above the zenith beyond the stargroup of the
Tress of Berenice towards the zodiacal sign of Leo. But
as he confidently anticipated there was not a sign of a Jehu plying for
hire anywhere to be seen except a fourwheeler, probably engaged by some
fellows inside on the spree, outside the North Star hotel and there was
no symptom of its budging a quarter of an inch when Mr Bloom, who was
anything but a professional whistler, endeavoured to hail it by
emitting a kind of a whistle, holding his arms arched over his head,
twice. Feel live warm beings near you. )_ Prosper! Give shade on languorous
days, trees of Ireland!

THE YEWS: _(Murmuring. They have no. Martin
could wind a sappyhead like that round his little finger, without his
seeing it. Corny Kelleher replies with a ghastly
lewd smile. It’s the bazaar fireworks. Twilight
phantoms are they, yet moulded in prophetic grace of structure, slim
shapely haunches, a supple tendonous neck, the meek apprehensive skull. They came down the steps from Leahy’s terrace prudently,
_Frauenzimmer_: and down the shelving shore flabbily, their splayed
feet sinking in the silted sand. Lifted. Stand us a drink itself. _In painted chambers loaded with
tilebooks. )_

BLOOM: _(At the window. Meshuggah. When Conmee had passed she glanced at her lovely echo
in that little mirror she carries. Nothing grows in it. —Pom! he then shouted once. Nice mixup. Then with
those Röntgen rays searchlight you could. Questioned by his earthname as to his whereabouts in the
heavenworld he stated that he was now on the path of prālāyā or return
but was still submitted to trial at the hands of certain bloodthirsty
entities on the lower astral levels. MARTHA: _(Thickveiled, a crimson halter round her neck, a copy of the_
Irish Times _in her hand, in tone of reproach, pointing. Doing his level best to say it. Hoh. Yes, sir. Walls have ears. I could not
save her. The crux was it was
a bit risky to bring him home as eventualities might possibly ensue
(somebody having a temper of her own sometimes) and spoil the hash
altogether as on the night he misguidedly brought home a dog (breed
unknown) with a lame paw (not that the cases were either identical or
the reverse though he had hurt his hand too) to Ontario Terrace as he
very distinctly remembered, having been there, so to speak. Led on by the smell or the look. Taken a little more than is good for him. The tank. At four she. _(With a tear in his eye. for
Midlothian, N. I saw him just now in Capel street with Paddy
Dignam. Bury the dead. Will we be there by candlelight?

—Mr Brandes accepts it, Stephen said, as the first play of the closing
period. His name stinks
all over Dublin. Habsburg. Rover
cycleshop. What? Where has he disappeared to? Not a sign. Rather warm. —Have a shot at it now, he ventured to say of the coffee after being
stirred. Trails off there sad in minor. Chloroform. In fact the slight soiling was only
an added charm like the case of linen slightly soiled, good as new,
much better in fact with the starch out. He halted on sir John Gray’s pavement island and peered aloft at Nelson
through the meshes of his wry smile. Witless shellfish swam in the gross lenses to and fro, seeking outlet. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. The editor’s blue eyes roved
towards Mr Bloom’s face, shadowed by a smile. )_

ARTIFONI: _Ci rifletta. Heart of mine! She would
follow, her dream of love, the dictates of her heart that told her he
was her all in all, the only man in all the world for her for love was
the master guide. _

He walked calmly and read mutely the nones, walking and reading till he
came to _Res_ in _Beati immaculati: Principium verborum tuorum veritas:
in eternum omnia iudicia iustitiæ tuæ. The year returns. )_ Poldy!

BLOOM: Who? _(He ducks and wards off a blow clumsily. —Is that first epistle to the Hebrews, he asked as soon as his bottom
jaw would let him, in? Text: open thy mouth and put thy foot in it. Take this. ; the rev. But what did we ever get for it?

—The French! says the citizen. What matter?

He walked back along Dorset street, reading gravely. —Two _mélanges,_ Buck Mulligan said. Trams passed one another, ingoing,
outgoing, clanging. Looking down he saw flapping strongly, wheeling between the gaunt
quaywalls, gulls. Hope that dewdrop doesn’t come down into his glass. Two. Huguenot name I expect that. He’s writing a book about
the Fitzgeralds he told me. Admiring. His initial impression was he was a shade standoffish or
not over effusive but it grew on him someway. How life begins. Not fit to be
mentioned in mixed society! The archconspirator of the age!

BLOOM: _(To the court. Something he buried there, his grandmother. Walking beside Molly in an Eton suit. g. Dion Boucicault business with his harvestmoon
face in a poky bonnet. A Greek he was. Hire only. Which preferably?

The latter, by the line of least resistance. Tour the south then. _

Father Conmee, having read his little hours, walked through the hamlet
of Donnycarney, murmuring vespers. Where was that ad some Birmingham firm the
luminous crucifix. The ball bobbed unheeded on the wake of
swells, floated under by the bridgepiers. No-one. —I’ll take a stone ginger, Bantam Lyons said. _(Halcyon days, high school boys in blue and white football jerseys and
shorts, Master Donald Turnbull, Master Abraham Chatterton, Master Owen
Goldberg, Master Jack Meredith, Master Percy Apjohn, stand in a
clearing of the trees and shout to Master Leopold Bloom. Big
ships’ chandler’s business he did once. Or so they said. That’s the
chat. —War! War! cried Father Cowley. At
another time we may resume. p: up. Got up as a young bride, man, veil,
orangeblossoms, drove out the road to Malahide. Fit as a fiddle only he has a lot of adipose tissue concealed about his
person. What harm if he could see what he was shaking it over. Vulmar and S. He unrolled the newspaper baton idly and read idly:

     What is home without
     Plumtree’s Potted Meat?
     Incomplete. O’Molloy and asked:

—Well, Jack. Dun for
a nun. Not completely. Here we are. )_




— III —


[ 16 ]

Preparatory to anything else Mr Bloom brushed off the greater bulk of
the shavings and handed Stephen the hat and ashplant and bucked him up
generally in orthodox Samaritan fashion which he very badly needed. Still
just then, being on tenterhooks, he desired the female’s room more than
her company so it came as a genuine relief when the keeper made her a
rude sign to take herself off. Lapwing you are. I too. My father is dead. He
died of a Tuesday. Wealth of the world. Scally, P. Sounds a bit silly till you
come to look into it well. With her weak blood and wheysour milk she had
fed him and hid from sight of others his swaddling bands. Would
you suck a lemon?

_(Squinting in mock shame she glances with sidelong meaning at Bloom,
then twists round towards him, pulling her slip free of the poker. But O, oblige me by taking away that
knife. What quality did it (his hand) possess but with what counteracting
influence?

The operative surgical quality but that he was reluctant to shed human
blood even when the end justified the means, preferring, in their
natural order, heliotherapy, psychophysicotherapeutics, osteopathic
surgery. Good Lord, that poor child’s dress is in flitters. Not to insult over him will the vision come as over one that lies
under her wrath, not for vengeance to cut him off from the living but
shrouded in the piteous vesture of the past, silent, remote,
reproachful. —I wouldn’t ask you only, pursued he, on my solemn oath and God knows
I’m on the rocks. Chemists rarely move. —Charley, Hynes said writing. —How much is that?

—Seven d. [ 13 ]


The summer evening had begun to fold the world in its mysterious
embrace. Amid the general vacant hilarity of the assembly a bell rang and, while
all were conjecturing what might be the cause, Miss Callan entered and,
having spoken a few words in a low tone to young Mr Dixon, retired with
a profound bow to the company. His justifications?

As a physicist he had learned that of the 70 years of complete human
life at least 2/7, viz. —No, Mr Bloom said. Workbasket I could buy for Molly’s birthday. Music they wanted. An illuminated scroll
of ancient Irish vellum, the work of Irish artists, was presented to
the distinguished phenomenologist on behalf of a large section of the
community and was accompanied by the gift of a silver casket,
tastefully executed in the style of ancient Celtic ornament, a work
which reflects every credit on the makers, Messrs Jacob _agus_ Jacob. T. Like these, got out of hand:
fermenting. —Perfectly true, says Bloom. Birth, hymen,
martyr, war, foundation of a building, sacrifice, kidney burntoffering,
druids’ altars. Big Ben his voice unfolded. He had a few bob on
_Throwaway_ and he’s gone to gather in the shekels. To Stephen: the problem of the sacerdotal integrity of Jesus
circumcised (1 January, holiday of obligation to hear mass and abstain
from unnecessary servile work) and the problem as to whether the divine
prepuce, the carnal bridal ring of the holy Roman catholic apostolic
church, conserved in Calcata, were deserving of simple hyperduly or of
the fourth degree of latria accorded to the abscission of such divine
excrescences as hair and toenails. Yet I’ve a sort of a
     Yorkshire relish for
     My little Yorkshire rose. She lays eggs for
us. Just how she stalks over my writingtable. I know a fellow was trying to get into it. —It is. Losing heart. She has a good job if she minds it till
Johnny comes marching home again. The carriage galloped round a corner: stopped. Tupper loves officer Taylor. Most beautiful tenor air ever written, Richie said: _Sonnambula. A discussion is difficult down here. Beggar my neighbour is his motto. _(With sudden fervour. ?

O!

Eh?

No. MRS BREEN: _(Squeezes his arm, simpers. )_ You
did that. O, that’s all only all right. I’ll ring them up after five. Must have slid down. )_ Wha’ll dance the keel
row, the keel row, the keel row?

_(Over the possing drift and choking breathcoughs, Elijah’s voice,
harsh as a corncrake’s, jars on high. Reads it backwards first. Chase me, the
cabby’s caudle. In
cry of lionel loneliness that she should know, must martha feel. _
But I old men, penitent, leadenfooted, underdarkneath the night: mouth
south: tomb womb. A. —Monsieur Moore, he said, lecturer on French letters to the youth of
Ireland. O yes, W. on the afternoon of 27 June 1886 a new
boater straw hat, extra smart (after having, though not in consequence
of having, purchased at the hour and in the place aforesaid, the toxin
aforesaid), at the general drapery store of James Cullen, 4 Main
street, Ennis. , M. What relation existed between their ages?

16 years before in 1888 when Bloom was of Stephen’s present age Stephen
was 6. The last act. )_ Interval which. Saluting Ned Lambert and John Henry Menton he walked on at Martin
Cunningham’s side puzzling two long keys at his back. It
glowed as she crouched feeding the fire with broken boots. And snug in their
spooncase of purple plush, faded, the twelve apostles having preached
to all the gentiles: world without end. Do right to hide
them. Through spaces smaller than red globules of man’s blood they
creepycrawl after Blake’s buttocks into eternity of which this
vegetable world is but a shadow. Germans making their way everywhere. Reporters complain that
they cannot hear. He suffered her to overtake him without surprise and
thrust his dull grey beard towards her, his loose jaw wagging as he
spoke earnestly. Poor Dignam, you know. )_

ZOE: _(Murmuring singsong with the music, her odalisk lips lusciously
smeared with salve of swinefat and rosewater. When, lo, there came about them all a great brightness and they beheld
the chariot wherein He stood ascend to heaven. PRIVATE CARR: _(To Cissy. Heavy of the past. )_ This silken purse I made out
of the sow’s ear of the public. Jove, a cool
ruttime send them. A prepared scheme based on a study of the laws of
probability to break the bank at Monte Carlo. Five months. —I’m deeply obliged, Mr Lambert, the clergyman said. And there he is too. Like the
wedding present alderman Hooper gave us. You were going to do wonders, what? Missionary to Europe after fiery
Columbanus. BLOOM: _(Stammers. You don’t stand for that, I suppose?

—You behold in me, Stephen said with grim displeasure, a horrible
example of free thought. Handsome yes, pretty in a
way you find but what I’m talking about is the female form. Cursed by God. The beautiful woman threw off her sabletrimmed wrap, displaying her
queenly shoulders and heaving embonpoint. Sucking duck eggs by God
till further orders. The twins were now playing in the most approved brotherly fashion till
at last Master Jacky who was really as bold as brass there was no
getting behind that deliberately kicked the ball as hard as ever he
could down towards the seaweedy rocks. O well, poor fellow, it’s not his fault. The devil
on moneylenders. I was at _Leah_, Mrs Bandmann Palmer. —Ah, gelong with your great times coming. —And the tragedy of it is, says the citizen, they believe it. Vindictive too. Hello?. Great topers too. Then
there was blushing scientifically cured and how to be tall increase
your height and you have a beautiful face but your nose? That would
suit Mrs Dignam because she had a button one. Butchers’ buckets wobbly lights. Wholesale burners and Dutch oven dealers. Her eyes are deeply carboned. )_ Clever ever. The felly harshed against the curbstone: stopped. John Wyse Nolan came down again. Ought to
invent dummy pianos for that. —. —That chap? says the citizen. I’m game for that job,
shaving and brushup. Might he become a gentleman farmer of field produce and live stock?

Not impossibly, with 1 or 2 stripper cows, 1 pike of upland hay and
requisite farming implements, e. Put on poor old greatgrandfather. ; the rev. Please tell me
what is the real meaning of that word? Are you not happy in your home
you poor little naughty boy? I do wish I could do something for you. O, no, she’s not here: the flower: no, no. It was dark brown with a
natural wave in it. Inshore and farther out the mirror of
water whitened, spurned by lightshod hurrying feet. A
third. He met other schoolboys. She raised a gloved hand to her hair. —Hold hard, says Joe, _i have a special nack of putting the noose once
in he can’t get out hoping to be favoured i remain, honoured sir, my
terms is five ginnees. Buy from us. Best thing to clean ladies’ kid
gloves. Woman. Bom! Upset. Voluble, dutiful, he led the way to all the provincial papers, a bowing
dark figure following his hasty heels. And says John Wyse:

—’Tis a custom more honoured in the breach than in the observance. Florry and Bella push the table towards
the fireplace. What becomes of it after? O, wrap up meat, parcels:
various uses, thousand and one things. )_

MANANAUN MACLIR: _(With a voice of waves. To. We are praying now for the repose of his soul. J. Haw. Mouth dry. THE LOITERERS: _(Guffaw with cleft palates. Windy night that was I went to fetch her there was that lodge meeting
on about those lottery tickets after Goodwin’s concert in the
supperroom or oakroom of the Mansion house. To Master Percy Apjohn at High School in 1880 he had divulged his
disbelief in the tenets of the Irish (protestant) church (to which his
father Rudolf Virag (later Rudolph Bloom) had been converted from the
Israelitic faith and communion in 1865 by the Society for promoting
Christianity among the jews) subsequently abjured by him in favour of
Roman catholicism at the epoch of and with a view to his matrimony in
1888. Edy told him no, no and to be off
now with him and she told Cissy Caffrey not to give in to him. Her artless blush unmanned me. It does. Mr Kernan turned and walked down the slope of Watling street by the
corner of Guinness’s visitors’ waitingroom. And he sat down in that castle
with them for to rest him there awhile. Love entanglement. Hockeysticks rattled in the
lumberroom: the hollow knock of a ball and calls from the field. Tap. Seven Davy Byrne’s. Henry Flower Esq,
c/o P. Miss gaze of Kennedy, heard, not seen, read on. _Notre ami_ Moore says
Malachi Mulligan must be there. On the farther
side under the railway bridge Bloom appears, flushed, panting, cramming
bread and chocolate into a sidepocket. Sticks too like a summer cold,
sore on the mouth. Were there schemes of wider scope?

A scheme to be formulated and submitted for approval to the harbour
commissioners for the exploitation of white coal (hydraulic power),
obtained by hydroelectric plant at peak of tide at Dublin bar or at
head of water at Poulaphouca or Powerscourt or catchment basins of main
streams for the economic production of 500,000 W. —How are you, Dedalus?

—Well. Mr Best’s face, appealed to, agreed. See
the animals feed. J. Mr Byrne, sir, we’ll take two
of your small Jamesons after that and a. —Praises be to God! Martin Cunningham said piously. —He had no father, says Martin. STEPHEN: _(Cracking his fingers impatiently. They paused at the counter. THE FAN: _(Points downwards slowly. _(The bells of George’s church toll slowly, loud dark iron. Both ends meet. Fair one of Egypt teased and sorted in the till
and hummed and handed coins in change. He’s got a
coughmixture with a punch in it for you, my friend, in his back pocket. Spurned lover. There was a slight difference of opinion between himself and the
Collard grand. He walked on. Milly was a kiddy then. And at the same time with such apposite
trenchancy. Buck Mulligan wiped again his razorblade. For Haines’s chapbook. Foghorns hoot. How did she walk with her
sausages? Like that something. Wellread fellow. Near Aldborough house Father Conmee thought of that spendthrift
nobleman. Swurls, he says. I have a little private business with your wife, you
understand?

BLOOM: Thank you, sir. _(He drags Kitty away. Lazy idle little schemer. Interesting. Hair streaming: lovelorn. _Done. Lovely
maidens sit in close proximity to the roots of the lovely trees singing
the most lovely songs while they play with all kinds of lovely objects
as for example golden ingots, silvery fishes, crans of herrings, drafts
of eels, codlings, creels of fingerlings, purple seagems and playful
insects. His eyes on the black tie and clothes he asked with low respect:

—Is there any. That’s in their
theology or the priest won’t give the poor woman the confession, the
absolution. Lobsters boiled alive. )_ Look. And
careworn hearts were there and toilers for their daily bread and many
who had erred and wandered, their eyes wet with contrition but for all
that bright with hope for the reverend father Father Hughes had told
them what the great saint Bernard said in his famous prayer of Mary,
the most pious Virgin’s intercessory power that it was not recorded in
any age that those who implored her powerful protection were ever
abandoned by her. The
scene he was always talking about where the old blind Abraham
recognises the voice and puts his fingers on his face. The colours were done something lovely. Doped
animals. A typesetter brought him a limp galleypage. Mortar and pestle. As said before
he ate with relish the inner organs, nutty gizzards, fried cods’ roes
while Richie Goulding, Collis, Ward ate steak and kidney, steak then
kidney, bite by bite of pie he ate Bloom ate they ate. , K. To be or not to be. this gentleman pays separate. They’re taught that. He is down on his luck at present owing to the mortgaging of his
extensive property at Agendath Netaim in faraway Asia Minor, slides of
which will now be shown. After dinner on a Sunday. S’elp me, honest injun. _(The crowd disperses slowly, muttering, down the lane. —If that were the birthmark of genius, he said, genius would be a drug
in the market. Yes, sir. Fragments of shapes, hewn. Winding of his ticker. _(Each lays hand on Bloom’s shoulder. Shapely goddesses, Venus, Juno:
curves the world admires. Roundness you
think good. In here, see. I am out for truth. —See? Tom Rochford said. )_ Woman,
undoing with sweet pudor her belt of rushrope, offers her allmoist yoni
to man’s lingam. —My twelfth rib is gone, he cried. The objects (which included several hundred ladies’ and
gentlemen’s gold and silver watches) were promptly restored to their
rightful owners and general harmony reigned supreme. She listens with big dark soft eyes. Do it in the bath. ’Tis the last rose of summer dollard left bloom felt wind wound round
inside. Did you meet him? He’ll see you after at
the D. On its cooperative dial glow the twelve
signs of the zodiac. Eh? This is the jingle that joggled and
jingled. Number eighty still unlet. Correct me but I always
understood that the act so performed by skittish humans with glimpses
of lingerie appealed to you in virtue of its exhibitionististicicity. We. halted and four tallhatted white flagons halted behind him,
E. )_

THE PIANOLA:

     My girl’s a Yorkshire girl. There was the
unanimous opinion that there was none to come up to her and suffice it
to say in a place of worship for music of a sacred character there was
a generally voiced desire for an encore. _ He
heard Joe Maas sing that one night. They never forget an appointment. Then he hitches
his belt sailor fashion and with a shrug of oriental obeisance salutes
the court, pointing one thumb heavenward. It seemed to Father Conmee a
pity that they should all be lost, a waste, if one might say. Come ahome, our Bantam. What considerations rendered departure not entirely undesirable?

Constant cohabitation impeding mutual toleration of personal defects. Hatpin: ought to have a guard on
those things. Tschink. Ben’s contrite beard confessed. —Asculum, Stephen said, glancing at the name and date in the
gorescarred book. Retaining the perpendicular. Fitted her like a glove,
shoulders and hips. Mine host came forth at the summons, girding him with his tabard. Fort Camden and Fort Carlisle. Have you ever seen a ghost? Well, I have. Considerable
amusement was caused by the favourite Dublin streetsingers L-n-h-n and
M-ll-g-n who sang _The Night before Larry was stretched_ in their usual
mirth-provoking fashion. Hard to imagine his funeral. What Garry? Are we going to win? Eh?

And with that he took the bloody old towser by the scruff of the neck
and, by Jesus, he near throttled him. No, wait:
four. Hark! Shut your obstropolos. Wait. —Foot and mouth. )_

MAGINNI: _Boulangère! Les ronds! Les ponts! Chevaux de bois!
Escargots!_

_(Twining, receding, with interchanging hands the night hours link each
each with arching arms in a mosaic of movements. My
plate’s empty. Black. )_ Absence
makes the heart grow younger. Well, meet him. —Who was the letter from? he asked. Nimbly they dance,
twirling their skipping ropes. From a
child this Frank had been a donought that his father, a headborough,
who could ill keep him to school to learn his letters and the use of
the globes, matriculated at the university to study the mechanics but
he took the bit between his teeth like a raw colt and was more familiar
with the justiciary and the parish beadle than with his volumes. Songs without words. —It wasn’t me, sir. O’Molloy strolled to the sloping desk and began to turn back the
pink pages of the file. That woman at midnight mass. Still he’d have to get someone to sod him after he died though
he could dig his own grave. Will
happen, yes. Still you learn something. —What is it now? he cried continually without listening. F. Under its leaf he watched through
peacocktwittering lashes the southing sun. She is quite nicey comfy without her outcast man, madame in
rue Gît-le-Cœur, canary and two buck lodgers. Down, baldynoddle, or we’ll wool your
wool. Millevoye,
Félix Faure, know how he died? Licentious men. Constable 14A
loves Mary Kelly. He dangles a
hank of Spanish onions in one hand and holds with the other hand a
telephone receiver nozzle to his ear. Nor in the stagnant bay of Marsh’s
library where you read the fading prophecies of Joachim Abbas. HENRY: _(Caressing on his breast a severed female head, murmurs. Hufa! Hufa!

Shrill shriek of laughter sprang from miss Kennedy’s throat. Though
that halfbaked Lyons ran off at a tangent in his impetuosity to get
left. Who’s there?. Perpetuating national hatred among nations. Minuet of _Don
Giovanni_ he’s playing now. )_ Bulbul! Burblblburblbl! Hai, boy!

_(The fronds and spaces of the wallpaper file rapidly across country. Bah!

STEPHEN: You remember fairly accurately all my errors, boasts,
mistakes. The bedside manner it is that they use in the Mater
hospice. F. —Ay. Bloo. At the bar, English or Irish:
exemplars, Seymour Bushe, K. In what posture?

Listener: reclined semilaterally, left, left hand under head, right leg
extended in a straight line and resting on left leg, flexed, in the
attitude of Gea-Tellus, fulfilled, recumbent, big with seed. I mean to say to fellows like
Flynn. One way of getting on in the world. Gold glowering light. Or broken bottles in the furze act
as a burning glass in the sun. Mr Bloom ate his strips of sandwich, fresh clean bread, with relish of
disgust pungent mustard, the feety savour of green cheese. of
saint Agatha’s church, north William street, on to Newcomen bridge. Grows all the same
after. )_ No
bottles! What, eleven? A riddle!

ZOE: _(Lifting up her pettigown and folding a half sovereign into the
top of her stocking. Funny, very!

There ensued a somewhat lengthy pause. Hear. BELLO: _(With wicked glee. Better cross here. You could go back perhaps, he
hasarded, still thinking of the very unpleasant scene at Westland Row
terminus when it was perfectly evident that the other two, Mulligan,
that is, and that English tourist friend of his, who eventually euchred
their third companion, were patently trying as if the whole bally
station belonged to them to give Stephen the slip in the confusion,
which they did. And a game filly she is. ) Corpus meum. It is what I tried to obliterate my crime. with your dear mother. Where I
saw his brillantined hair just when I was. )_ Come on, you’re boosed. The lefthand dead shot. There he goes into Frederick
street. —Gentlemen, Stephen said. In a hurry to bury. The Gaelic league wants something in Irish. Like a man walking in his sleep. The eastern seas. Mr Bloom cut his sandwich into slender strips. Hyacinth perfume made of oil of ether or something. )_ Come to the station. They looked. It hurt—O yes, it cut deep because Edy had her own quiet
way of saying things like that she knew would wound like the confounded
little cat she was. )_ Yumyum. O’Molloy said. Force of
habit. —O, dear me, Mrs Breen said. Remember about the
mistake in the valuation when I was in Thom’s. Blow gentle. He was Judas Iacchia, a Libyan eunuch, the
pope’s bastard. The inhabitants are lodged in
barrels and boxes, all marked in red with the letters: L. Just a few. Particular about his drink. Jay, look at the
drunken minister coming out of the maternity hospal! _Benedicat vos
omnipotens Deus, Pater et Filius_. When all agog miss Douce said eagerly:

—Look at the fellow in the tall silk. Shaved off his moustache again, by Jove! Long cold upper lip. )_ Ha ha ha ha. Perspiring in a loose lawn
surplice with funnel sleeves he is seen, vergerfaced, above a rostrum
about which the banner of old glory is draped. Like to see her again in that. I found him over in the
museum where I went to hail the foamborn Aphrodite. Pshaw, I tell
thee! He is a mule, a dead gasteropod, without vim or stamina, not
worth a cracked kreutzer. STEPHEN: _(With an effort. STEPHEN: I seem to annoy them. He had been meantime taking stock of the individual in front of him and
Sherlockholmesing him up ever since he clapped eyes on him. Fare. Tourists, you know, from
the isle of Man. A. Really he was. It’s my ball. Flies’ picnic too. Old shrunken paps. )_ Weda seca whokilla farst. Salt junk all the time. Six weeks off, however. Chase me, Charley! _(He blows into
Bloom’s ear. Still, you never know. )

     Hangende Hunger,
     Fragende Frau,
     Macht uns alle kaputt. Another report states that he was a very posthumous child. The viceroy, on his way to inaugurate the Mirus bazaar in aid of funds
for Mercer’s hospital, drove with his following towards Lower Mount
street. Occasionally he removed from his lips the traces of
food by means of a lacerated envelope or other accessible fragment of
paper. Demesne situate in the townland of
Rosenallis, barony of Tinnahinch. A delicate pink crept into her
pretty cheek but she was determined to let them see so she just lifted
her skirt a little but just enough and took good aim and gave the ball
a jolly good kick and it went ever so far and the two twins after it
down towards the shingle. It was all
no use soothering him with no, nono, baby, no and telling him about the
geegee and where was the puffpuff but Ciss, always readywitted, gave
him in his mouth the teat of the suckingbottle and the young heathen
was quickly appeased. Can you?_


In mourning for Sallust, Mulligan says. —Wonder what he’s buying, M’Coy said, glancing behind. Perfectly shocking terrific of religion’s things mockery
seen in universal world. Her growing pains at night, calling, wakening
me. Fred Ryan wants space for an
article on economics. I rose from the ranks, sir, and I’m proud of it. Leugarde and S. Garn! Have a
glint, do. Good breath. On solitary hotel paper she writes. ? Yes, _Telegraph_. _(Lewdly. Get twenty of
them round you if you stare at nothing. Boody cried angrily:

—Crickey, is there nothing for us to eat?

Katey, lifting the kettlelid in a pad of her stained skirt, asked:

—And what’s in this?

A heavy fume gushed in answer. And in a sad plight he
was too after his misadventure. Will I get up? O wait. Same old six and eightpence. I know two
editors slightly. Bacilikil (Insect Powder). Myler
Keogh, that’s the chap sparring out to him with the green sash. Just Carr. —Yes, Mr Bloom said. Five tallwhitehatted sandwichmen between Monypeny’s corner and the slab
where Wolfe Tone’s statue was not, eeled themselves turning H. If ever there was
undisguised admiration in a man’s passionate gaze it was there plain to
be seen on that man’s face. C. —Well, sir, he began. I thirst. _And in the porches of mine ear did pour. His hand turned the page over. Still they get their feed all right and
their doss. I’m not a hero, however. He wears a white jersey on
which an image of the Sacred Heart is stitched with the insignia of
Garter and Thistle, Golden Fleece, Elephant of Denmark, Skinner’s and
Probyn’s horse, Lincoln’s Inn bencher and ancient and honourable
artillery company of Massachusetts. I’ll see you
across. Over and done with. _(He stands aside at the
threshold. Upon incertitude, upon unlikelihood. Father, Word and Holy Breath. Funny my watch stopped at half past four. Wait while you wait. All for a shadow. Quite safe. Sir, to you my hand. —See here, he said, showing Antonio. Bloowho went by by Moulang’s pipes bearing in his breast the sweets of
sin, by Wine’s antiques, in memory bearing sweet sinful words, by
Carroll’s dusky battered plate, for Raoul. I’ll read the rest after. As he went down the kitchen stairs she called:

—Poldy!

—What?

—Scald the teapot. )_ Hoondert punt sterlink. No, I didn’t. They passed Dan Lowry’s musichall where Marie Kendall, charming
soubrette, smiled on them from a poster a dauby smile. Let there be life. For instance when the
evicted tenants question, then at its first inception, bulked largely
in people’s mind though, it goes without saying, not contributing a
copper or pinning his faith absolutely to its dictums, some of which
wouldn’t exactly hold water, he at the outset in principle at all
events was in thorough sympathy with peasant possession as voicing the
trend of modern opinion (a partiality, however, which, realising his
mistake, he was subsequently partially cured of) and even was twitted
with going a step farther than Michael Davitt in the striking views he
at one time inculcated as a backtothelander, which was one reason he
strongly resented the innuendo put upon him in so barefaced a fashion
by our friend at the gathering of the clans in Barney Kiernan’s so that
he, though often considerably misunderstood and the least pugnacious of
mortals, be it repeated, departed from his customary habit to give him
(metaphorically) one in the gizzard though, so far as politics
themselves were concerned, he was only too conscious of the casualties
invariably resulting from propaganda and displays of mutual animosity
and the misery and suffering it entailed as a foregone conclusion on
fine young fellows, chiefly, destruction of the fittest, in a word. )_

BLOOM: _(Points to his hand. He stood a moment unseeing by the cold black
marble bowl while before him and behind two worshippers dipped furtive
hands in the low tide of holy water. The carriage climbed more slowly the hill of Rutland square. —Take a what? says I. He walked on, waiting to be spoken to, trailing his ashplant by his
side. )_ Leave him to me. Mullee! What’s on you? _Ma
mère m’a mariée. The widower. observed or rather his voice speaking did, all
must work, have to, together. —Hush, Lenehan said. )_
Hajajaja. A mighthavebeen. _Ma, dia retta
a me. Circus horse walking in a ring. Two about here. His smile faded as he walked, a heavy cloud hiding the sun slowly,
shadowing Trinity’s surly front. Mr Bloom moved behind the portly kindly
caretaker. Get a queer old tailend of corned beef off
of that one, what?

So anyhow in came John Wyse Nolan and Lenehan with him with a face on
him as long as a late breakfast. Lady this. —Go on then, Talbot. It’s all right. )_ Where’s the bloody house?

THE SHEBEENKEEPER: Purdon street. But there is another member of his family who is recorded. _ He walked by the treeshade of
sunnywinking leaves: and towards him came the wife of Mr David Sheehy
M. —People do not know how dangerous lovesongs can be, the auric egg of
Russell warned occultly. ) which took place in the commons’ hall of the
National Maternity Hospital, 29, 30 and 31 Holles street, of which, as
is well known, Dr A. His corns. He was just a big nervous
foolish noodly kind of a horse, without a second care in the world. Wreckers. What idiosyncracies of the narrator were concomitant products of
amnesia?

Occasionally he ate without having previously removed his hat. I think I’ll join you. There were
fine plates in it worth double the money, the stars and the moon and
comets with long tails. )_ Which of you was playing the dead march
from _Saul?_

ZOE: Me. The joy
the feel the warm the. Burst
sideways like a sheep in clover Dedalus says he will. To, fro. —That mole is the last to go, Stephen said, laughing. For which and further reasons he felt it was his interest and duty even
to wait on and profit by the unlookedfor occasion though why he could
not exactly tell being as it was already several shillings to the bad
having in fact let himself in for it. Then someone said something about
the case of the s. —Bottles out there, say. That’s my programme. He’s been known
to put his hand down too to help a fellow. Was it a daisy? Innocence that is. —I will, he said gravely. )_ Here,
kiss that. One hour’s your time to live,
your last. BLOOM: _(In caubeen with clay pipe stuck in the band, dusty brogues, an
emigrant’s red handkerchief bundle in his hand, leading a black bogoak
pig by a sugaun, with a smile in his eye. Try it
anyhow. Nightbird nightsun nighttown. Hissss. Silently,
in a dream she had come to him after her death, her wasted body within
its loose brown graveclothes giving off an odour of wax and rosewood,
her breath, that had bent upon him, mute, reproachful, a faint odour of
wetted ashes. His hat (Parnell’s) a silk one was inadvertently
knocked off and, as a matter of strict history, Bloom was the man who
picked it up in the crush after witnessing the occurrence meaning to
return it to him (and return it to him he did with the utmost celerity)
who panting and hatless and whose thoughts were miles away from his hat
at the time all the same being a gentleman born with a stake in the
country he, as a matter of fact, having gone into it more for the kudos
of the thing than anything else, what’s bred in the bone instilled into
him in infancy at his mother’s knee in the shape of knowing what good
form was came out at once because he turned round to the donor and
thanked him with perfect _aplomb_, saying: _Thank you, sir_, though in
a very different tone of voice from the ornament of the legal
profession whose headgear Bloom also set to rights earlier in the
course of the day, history repeating itself with a difference, after
the burial of a mutual friend when they had left him alone in his glory
after the grim task of having committed his remains to the grave. Eyes shut. Plain and loved, loved for ever, they say. Quietly, sure of his ground,
he traversed the dismal fields. it’s long after eleven. In other respects were their differences similar?

In passivity, in economy, in the instinct of tradition, in
unexpectedness. He stepped swiftly off, his eyes coming to blue life as they passed a
broad sunbeam. —That’s a fine day, Mr Kelleher. evensong Love on hackney jaunt Blazes blind coddoubled
bicyclers Dilly with snowcake no fancy clothes. I. Sad case. A. Haines helped himself and snapped the case to. Loyal to a lost cause. Authentic fact. O’Molloy murmured. From which (if any) of these mental or physical disorders was he not
totally immune?

From hypnotic suggestion: once, waking, he had not recognised his
sleeping apartment: more than once, waking, he had been for an
indefinite time incapable of moving or uttering sounds. Wall, tarnation strike
me!

—The schoolmen were schoolboys first, Stephen said superpolitely. The one about
_Hamlet. They bent their silk hats in concert and Hynes inclined his ear. —Who are the letters for?

He looked at them. To tell the truth he
was mean in fortunes and for the most part hankered about the
coffeehouses and low taverns with crimps, ostlers, bookies, Paul’s men,
runners, flatcaps, waistcoateers, ladies of the bagnio and other rogues
of the game or with a chanceable catchpole or a tipstaff often at
nights till broad day of whom he picked up between his sackpossets much
loose gossip. —There you are, says Terry. Men’s arms frankly round their
stunted forms. Come. Inspiration of genius. Over against the Rt. Who kicked the bucket. —There must be a new moon out, she said. Felt for the curves inside her _déshabillé. _(Lynch tosses a
cigarette from the sofa to the table. THE GRAMOPHONE: _(Drowning his voice. Tupper, wealthy Chicago
contractor, finds pretty but faithless wife in lap of officer Taylor. He knows your old fellow. LOST CAUSES NOBLE MARQUESS MENTIONED


—We were always loyal to lost causes, the professor said. What do the yellowjohns of
Anglia owe us for our ruined trade and our ruined hearths? And the beds
of the Barrow and Shannon they won’t deepen with millions of acres of
marsh and bog to make us all die of consumption?

—As treeless as Portugal we’ll be soon, says John Wyse, or Heligoland
with its one tree if something is not done to reafforest the land. Gold by bronze heard iron steel. And plotting that murder all the time. My
childhood bends beside me. A curse is on it. _(Corny Kelleher, weepers round his hat, a death wreath in his hand,
appears among the bystanders. Bare clean closestools waiting in the window of William Miller,
plumber, turned back his thoughts. With swaying arms they wail in pneuma over the
recreant Bloom. O’Molloy asked Stephen. Got fellows to stick them up or
stick them up himself for that matter on the q. —Is that really a fact? says Alf. BANTAM LYONS: Prophesy who will win the Saint Leger. To
me. Let it go. Fresh thing was never touched. The inner door was opened violently and a scarlet beaked face, crested
by a comb of feathery hair, thrust itself in. Give me my
Wordsworth. —_Sweets of Sin,_ he said, tapping on it. He saw him once on the
auspicious occasion when they broke up the type in the _Insuppressible_
or was it _United Ireland_, a privilege he keenly appreciated, and, in
point of fact, handed him his silk hat when it was knocked off and he
said _Thank you_, excited as he undoubtedly was under his frigid
exterior notwithstanding the little misadventure mentioned between the
cup and the lip: what’s bred in the bone. And you, father?

Father Conmee was wonderfully well indeed. —Mr Dedalus!

Running after me. Only big words for ordinary things on account of the
sound. A wise tabby, a blinking sphinx, watched from her warm sill. Sea and headland now
grew dim. —_Qui sdegno,_ Ben, said Father Cowley. A
plate crashes: a woman screams: a child wails. BLOOM: _(Undecided. )_

SECOND WATCH: Another! Are you of the unfortunate class?

MARY DRISCOLL: _(Indignantly. Kraandl. Geld him. Weight or size of it, something blacker than the dark. And it turned
out to be a commemoration postcard of Joe Brady or Number One or
Skin-the-Goat. Must be careful about women. The stake faggots and the caldron of boiling oil are for him. J. —Two, Corny Kelleher said. Q. —What? Mr Power whispered. For instance if you go into a cellar where it’s dark. By bronze, by gold, in oceangreen of shadow. ZOE: And you know what thought did?

_(She bites his ear gently with little goldstopped teeth, sending on
him a cloying breath of stale garlic. U. Then lie back to rest. )_ I treated you white. What were then the alternatives before the, premeditatedly
(respectively) and inadvertently, keyless couple?

To enter or not to enter. Silk of the kine and
poor old woman, names given her in old times. You
had to come back. I was kissed. Did I forget to write address on that letter like the postcard I sent
to Flynn? And the day I went to Drimmie’s without a necktie. You have no cities nor no wealth: our cities are hives of humanity and
our galleys, trireme and quadrireme, laden with all manner merchandise
furrow the waters of the known globe. We serve them. You know, Dedalus, you
have the real Oxford manner. Twenty thousand of them died in
the coffinships. )_
There is a flower that bloometh. He looked down at the boots he had blacked and polished. John Eclecticon doubly smiled. )_

THE SLUTS:

     O, Leopold lost the pin of his drawers
     He didn’t know what to do,
     To keep it up,
     To keep it up. Didn’t catch me napping that wheeze. Wonder what her father gave for
it. O yes, every time. Ask her no answ. They were protestants in his family
and of course Gerty knew Who came first and after Him the Blessed
Virgin and then Saint Joseph. He jerks on. )_ O, I have been a perfect pig. Regular square feed
for them. You were
awfully holy, weren’t you? You prayed to the Blessed Virgin that you
might not have a red nose. Curiosity. R. Came now the
storm that hist his heart. —Ay, the Lord have mercy on him. On earth as it is in heaven. —There’s one thing it hasn’t a deterrent effect on, says Alf. And every jew is in a tall state of excitement, I believe,
till he knows if he’s a father or a mother. One fellow told another and so
on. Resigned he passed out
with grave words and gait, saying, wellnigh with sorrow:

—And going forth he met Butterly. —Save them, says the citizen, the giant ash of Galway and the chieftain
elm of Kildare with a fortyfoot bole and an acre of foliage. Talk. That gouger M’Coy stopping me to say nothing. How now, sirrah, that pound he lent you when you were hungry?

Marry, I wanted it. I’d give my life for him, the
funniest man on earth. Eat pig like pig. We had to. —Thank you, my miss. P. You’ll look spiffing in them. A Stuart face of nonesuch Charles, lank locks falling at its sides. Miss Kenn out of earshot. Of course you didn’t notice as much as I did. I’m off that, thanks. )_ Get down and push, mister. From
Cahill’s corner the reverend Hugh C. —Dedalus, come down, like a good mosey. Damn it! What a
pity!

*    *    *


Stephen Dedalus watched through the webbed window the lapidary’s
fingers prove a timedulled chain. —Here, Stephen said. _

CHRIS CALLINAN: What is the parallax of the subsolar ecliptic of
Aldebaran?

BLOOM: Pleased to hear from you, Chris. E. Miss Douce took Boylan’s coin, struck boldly the cashregister. Penny for yourself. I say, Hynes!

Didn’t hear. Won’t last. The
king’s friends (God bless His Majesty!) shall not go afasting in my
house I warrant me. It claims to afford a noiseless,
inoffensive vent. Corpuscle islands. No, change that ee. The anchor’s
weighed. She drew herself up to her full height. —Here he was, miss Douce said, cocking her bronze head three quarters,
ruffling her nosewings. BELLO: _(With a hard basilisk stare, in a baritone voice. BLOOM: Done. 3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. The elderly bawd seizes
his sleeve, the bristles of her chinmole glittering. Clearly I can see today. Blue bloom is on
the rye. Cook
and general, exc. Who had the? Heehaw shesaw. Might have made a
worse fool of myself however. Haines, who had been laughing guardedly, walked on beside Stephen and
said:

—We oughtn’t to laugh, I suppose. I will, sir. O’MOLLOY: _(Hotly to the populace. In the bright silent instant Stephen saw his own image in
cheap dusty mourning between their gay attires. There were equally excellent opportunities for vacationists in the home
island, delightful sylvan spots for rejuvenation, offering a plethora
of attractions as well as a bracing tonic for the system in and around
Dublin and its picturesque environs even, Poulaphouca to which there
was a steamtram, but also farther away from the madding crowd in
Wicklow, rightly termed the garden of Ireland, an ideal neighbourhood
for elderly wheelmen so long as it didn’t come down, and in the wilds
of Donegal where if report spoke true the _coup d’œil_ was exceedingly
grand though the lastnamed locality was not easily getatable so that
the influx of visitors was not as yet all that it might be considering
the signal benefits to be derived from it while Howth with its historic
associations and otherwise, Silken Thomas, Grace O’Malley, George IV,
rhododendrons several hundred feet above sealevel was a favourite haunt
with all sorts and conditions of men especially in the spring when
young men’s fancy, though it had its own toll of deaths by falling off
the cliffs by design or accidentally, usually, by the way, on their
left leg, it being only about three quarters of an hour’s run from the
pillar. —Which air is that? asked Leopold Bloom. gutenberg. A hasty step over the stone porch and in the corridor. Broken hoops on the shore; at the land a maze
of dark cunning nets; farther away chalkscrawled backdoors and on the
higher beach a dryingline with two crucified shirts. Not lose a demisemiquaver. Is that Ned
Lambert’s brother over the way, Sam? What? Yes. So Joe starts telling the citizen about the foot and mouth disease and
the cattle traders and taking action in the matter and the citizen
sending them all to the rightabout and Bloom coming out with his
sheepdip for the scab and a hoose drench for coughing calves and the
guaranteed remedy for timber tongue. )_ O, my dictionary. Burgundy. THE WATERFALL:

     Phillaphulla Poulaphouca
     Poulaphouca Poulaphouca. The delegation partook of luncheon at the conclusion of
which the dusky potentate, in the course of a happy speech, freely
translated by the British chaplain, the reverend Ananias Praisegod
Barebones, tendered his best thanks to Massa Walkup and emphasised the
cordial relations existing between Abeakuta and the British empire,
stating that he treasured as one of his dearest possessions an
illuminated bible, the volume of the word of God and the secret of
England’s greatness, graciously presented to him by the white chief
woman, the great squaw Victoria, with a personal dedication from the
august hand of the Royal Donor. et Eug. —Don’t tell anyone, says the citizen. What means this? Desire’s wind blasts the thorntree but after
it becomes from a bramblebush to be a rose upon the rood of time. Out of it out of it. With a wand he beats time slowly. Year before we. Which. So womanly, full. —That I had, he said, pushing it by. My wife, I am the daughter of a most distinguished commander, a gallant
upstanding gentleman, what do you call him, Majorgeneral Brian Tweedy,
one of Britain’s fighting men who helped to win our battles. The hawklike man. Wonder is it like
that. I resent violence and intolerance in any shape or form. Must begin again those Sandow’s exercises. I have his money and his hat here and stick. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www. Intimacy did not occur and the offence complained of
by Driscoll, that her virtue was solicited, was not repeated. Cavaliers behind
them arch and suspend their arms, with hands descending to, touching,
rising from their shoulders. Mulligan will
dub me a new name: the bullockbefriending bard. The young sparks, it is true, were as full of extravagancies as
overgrown children: the words of their tumultuary discussions were
difficultly understood and not often nice: their testiness and
outrageous _mots_ were such that his intellects resiled from: nor were
they scrupulously sensible of the proprieties though their fund of
strong animal spirits spoke in their behalf. Still always nice to hear. Dust slept on dull coils of bronze and silver, lozenges of cinnabar, on
rubies, leprous and winedark stones. Why they put tables upside down at night, I mean chairs
upside down, on the tables in cafés. Excuse me, he said over his shoulder, _the dictates of
common sense. It’s so characteristic. What
am I following him for? Still, he’s the best of that lot. Come and look. —It is very simple, Stephen said as he stood up. My sword. Frightening them with
masks too. His life was
rich. He caressed his beard, adding:

—Well, nearly all of us. —What are you doing round those parts? says Joe. We
are the last. O, she is. Give us
a touch, Poldy. Aho! If
you don’t answer when they solicit must be horrible for them till they
harden. _(He feels his trouser pocket. —What’s up with you, says I to Lenehan. _the morn is breaking. Our two champions claimed their plaything with lusty cries
and to avoid trouble Cissy Caffrey called to the gentleman to throw it
to her please. Death. By leaving in a conspicuous place a certain book open at a
certain page: by assuming in her, when alluding explanatorily, latent
knowledge: by open ridicule in her presence of some absent other’s
ignorant lapse. Quite right to close it. , Charing Cross, London, W. I
suggested to him about a transparent showcart with two smart girls
sitting inside writing letters, copybooks, envelopes, blottingpaper. Ten shillings a time. I ought to
have said something about an old hat or something. He disappears. O. Gall and S. Half baked they look: hypnotised like. —Except it simply amounts to one thing and he is what they call picking
your brains, he ventured to throw out. —Are you codding? says I. )_ Why didn’t you kiss the spot to make it well? You wanted
to. He read the other title: _Sweets of Sin_. Get thee a breechpad. Some good matronly
woman in a porkpie hat to mother him. Broke them yesterday. Laughter seized
all his strong wellknit trunk. —Show here, she said. Lids of
Juno’s eyes, violets. , K. )_

MAGINNI: _Avant huit! Traversé! Salut! Cours de mains! Croisé!_

_(The night hours, one by one, steal to the last place. Akasic records. Lady Bloom accepts no
presents. Big strong men, officers of the peace and
genial giants of the royal Irish constabulary, were making frank use of
their handkerchiefs and it is safe to say that there was not a dry eye
in that record assemblage. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. Why not bring in Henry Grattan and Flood and Demosthenes
and Edmund Burke? Ignatius Gallaher we all know and his Chapelizod
boss, Harmsworth of the farthing press, and his American cousin of the
Bowery guttersheet not to mention _Paddy Kelly’s Budget_, _Pue’s
Occurrences_ and our watchful friend _The Skibbereen Eagle_. —Bad cess to her big face! she cried. Curious the life of drifting cabbies. Hope he’ll say something else. —No, said miss Kennedy. He looked with vague hope up and down the quay, a big apple bulging in
his neck. Gulp. Eat drink and be
merry. —We’re off again. Not a sinner. You have but emerged from
primitive conditions: we have a literature, a priesthood, an agelong
history and a polity. —Holy Wars, says Joe, laughing, that’s a good one if old Shylock is
landed. Fare thee well. A soapy sneak
masquerading as a literateur. Pillar of salt. So he starts telling us about corporal punishment and about the crew of
tars and officers and rearadmirals drawn up in cocked hats and the
parson with his protestant bible to witness punishment and a young lad
brought out, howling for his ma, and they tie him down on the buttend
of a gun. t. Had Bloom and Stephen been baptised, and where and by whom, cleric or
layman?

Bloom (three times), by the reverend Mr Gilmer Johnston M. )_ So! Warranted Cohen! What advance on two bob, gentlemen?

A DARKVISAGED MAN: _(In disguised accent. Substantially. Girl in Tranquilla
convent that nun told me liked to smell rock oil. Slattery’s mounted foot. —He had a sudden death, poor fellow, he said. —Yesterday! exclaimed Bloom till he remembered it was already tomorrow
Friday. Old woman
that lived in a shoe she had so many children. Though they didn’t see eye to eye in everything a certain analogy there
somehow was as if both their minds were travelling, so to speak, in the
one train of thought. A miss Dubedat
lived in Killiney, I remember. Haines called to them from the
doorway:

—Are you coming, you fellows?

—I’m ready, Buck Mulligan answered, going towards the door. They turned to the left along Abbey street. Little Harry Hughes and his schoolfellows all
     Went out for to play ball. On the towpath by the lock a
slacktethered horse. O rose! Castile. Father Conmee passed H. Come. And there sits uncle Chubb or Tomkin, as the case might be, the
publican of the Crown and Anchor, in shirtsleeves, eating rumpsteak and
onions. Huggermugger in corners. Drunkards bawl. Dark men they call them. Yours serfdom, awe and humbleness: ours thunder and the seas. I’m coming. He looked in Stephen’s face as he spoke. Miss Douce turned to her tea aside. _Blumenlied_ I bought for her. _(Zoe and Stephen turn boldly with looser swing. And the rest
nowhere. Usual love scrimmage. The face at the window! Judge of his astonishment when he
finally did breast the tape and the awful truth dawned upon him anent
his better half, wrecked in his affections. One rapped, one tapped, with a carra, with a cock. —But, says Bloom, isn’t discipline the same everywhere. 1 through 1. _

What does that _teco_ mean? Tonight perhaps. Wander through awned streets. It was a
pitchdark night. And the identical same with murderers. Haines detached from his underlip some fibres of tobacco before he
spoke. Want to
manure the whole place over, scabby soil. Like that. R. —Take page four, advertisement for Bransome’s coffee, let us say. Now. _

And says John Wyse:

—Full many a flower is born to blush unseen. —I have rebel blood in me too, Mr Deasy said. Rank heresy for
them. Let us see. Yes. )_

_(A man in a brown macintosh springs up through a trapdoor. —Go on, pressed Lenehan. To cut a long story short Bloom, grasping the situation, was the first
to rise from his seat so as not to outstay their welcome having first
and foremost, being as good as his word that he would foot the bill for
the occasion, taken the wise precaution to unobtrusively motion to mine
host as a parting shot a scarcely perceptible sign when the others were
not looking to the effect that the amount due was forthcoming, making a
grand total of fourpence (the amount he deposited unobtrusively in four
coppers, literally the last of the Mohicans), he having previously
spotted on the printed pricelist for all who ran to read opposite him
in unmistakable figures, coffee 2d, confectionery do, and honestly well
worth twice the money once in a way, as Wetherup used to remark. Only a pauper. No question but
her name is puissant who aventried the dear corse of our Agenbuyer,
Healer and Herd, our mighty mother and mother most venerable and
Bernardus saith aptly that She hath an _omnipotentiam deiparae
supplicem_, that is to wit, an almightiness of petition because she is
the second Eve and she won us, saith Augustine too, whereas that other,
our grandam, which we are linked up with by successive anastomosis of
navelcords sold us all, seed, breed and generation, for a penny pippin. If you didn’t know risky putting anything
into your mouth. The eyes that wish me well. Hundred to five! Jesus, he took the value of it out of him, I promise
you. What selfinvolved enigma did Bloom risen, going, gathering
multicoloured multiform multitudinous garments, voluntarily
apprehending, not comprehend?

Who was M’Intosh?

What selfevident enigma pondered with desultory constancy during 30
years did Bloom now, having effected natural obscurity by the
extinction of artificial light, silently suddenly comprehend?

Where was Moses when the candle went out?

What imperfections in a perfect day did Bloom, walking, charged with
collected articles of recently disvested male wearing apparel,
silently, successively, enumerate?

A provisional failure to obtain renewal of an advertisement: to obtain
a certain quantity of tea from Thomas Kernan (agent for Pulbrook,
Robertson and Co, 5 Dame Street, Dublin, and 2 Mincing Lane, London E. Steady on. Haines! Which of us did not feel his
flesh creep! He had a portfolio full of Celtic literature in one hand,
in the other a phial marked _Poison. Of course he is dead. BELLO: Would if you could, lame duck. —O jakers, Jenny, says Joe, how short your shirt is!

—There’s hair, Joe, says I. 8 or 1. _

—You’re looking extra. Vanilla calms or? Mnemo. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. THE BUCKLES: Love me. M. So howandever, as I was saying, the old dog seeing the tin was empty
starts mousing around by Joe and me. Easier
than the dreamy creamy stuff. In five public
conveniences he wrote pencilled messages offering his nuptial partner
to all strongmembered males. Handed down from father to, mother to daughter, I mean. I. )_ That weal there is an accident. Faultfinding being a proverbially bad hat Mr Bloom thought well to stir
or try to the clotted sugar from the bottom and reflected with
something approaching acrimony on the Coffee Palace and its temperance
(and lucrative) work. Your name on the altarlist. Lethargy. A great poet on a great brother poet. Ashes too. He blotted quick on pad of Pat. Murdered his brother. Now for your punishment frock. )_ Ute ute ute ute ute ute ute ute. The obsequies, at which many friends of the
deceased were present, were carried out_ (certainly Hynes wrote it with
a nudge from Corny) _by Messrs H. Repent, Stephen. Queen was in her bedroom eating bread
and. Prescott’s dyeworks
van over there. We’re nae tha fou. And Master Lynch bade him have a care to
flout and witwanton as the god self was angered for his hellprate and
paganry. Once her in
townhithe meeting he to her bow had not doffed. —Devil a much, says I. Why, look at our
public life!

_(Midnight chimes from distant steeples. _(She claps her hands. In
Mooney’s _en ville_ and in Mooney’s _sur mer. Hello. —She was a daughter of. —I seen that particular party last evening, the constable said with
bated breath. After all, from the little I
know of you, after all the money expended on your education you are
entitled to recoup yourself and command your price. And the very second ball little Harry Hughes played
     He broke the jew’s windows all. And now his strongroom for the gold. Diddleiddle addleaddle ooddleooddle. STEPHEN: _(Amiably. No. Buck Mulligan brought up a florin, twisted it round in
his fingers and cried:

—A miracle!

He passed it along the table towards the old woman, saying:

—Ask nothing more of me, sweet. What did he say? What did he say? What did he say
about me? Don’t ask. Bloom. Her blue scarf loose, laughing. They covered their heads. What endemic characteristics were present?

Conversely the nasal and frontal formation was derived in a direct line
of lineage which, though interrupted, would continue at distant
intervals to more distant intervals to its most distant intervals. Vestal virgins. Shame all put on before third
person. From
a bulge of window curtains a gramophone rears a battered brazen trunk. BELLO: _(Sternly. God, Kinch, if you and
I could only work together we might do something for the island. Subsequently
he enclosed a bloom of edelweiss culled on the heights, as he said, in
my honour. Quoth littlejohn Eglinton:

—I was prepared for paradoxes from what Malachi Mulligan told us but I
may as well warn you that if you want to shake my belief that
Shakespeare is Hamlet you have a stern task before you. A. That’s how that
wise man what’s his name with the burning glass. Dust darkened the toiling fingers with their vulture nails. They went up the steps and under Merchants’ arch. Do you mean he. _(The image of the lake of Kinnereth with blurred cattle cropping in
silver haze is projected on the wall. Et erant valde bona_. Gregor Grey made the design for it. O, yes, mention there is. Ten shillings!

FLORRY: _(With a glass of water, enters. It’s
like one of our skipper’s bricks disguised. Sister? How many women in Dublin have it today? Martha,
she. Well,
I’ll shove along. [ 11 ]


Bronze by gold heard the hoofirons, steelyringing. —Merrion square style. —And welcome, answered the elderly party thus addressed. —By God, then, says Ned, laughing, if that’s so I’m a nation for I’m
living in the same place for the past five years. I
am positive when I say that if need were I could produce a cloud of
witnesses to the excellence of her noble exercitations which, so far
from being a byword, should be a glorious incentive in the human
breast. A saint couldn’t resist it. They sometimes
feel what a person is. Immortal lovely. P. Bringing his host down and kneeling he heard twine with his
second bell the first bell in the transept (he is lifting his) and,
rising, heard (now I am lifting) their two bells (he is kneeling) twang
in diphthong. )_

BLOOM: _(Mumbles. Penny the
gulls. —Wise virgins, professor MacHugh said. Homonymous and S. And you might put down M’Coy’s name too. And the bloody dog woke up and let a growl. Ook. U. Read mine. Sons with mothers, sires with daughters,
lesbic sisters, loves that dare not speak their name, nephews with
grandmothers, jailbirds with keyholes, queens with prize bulls. Envel. For instance who? For instance some fellow that
died when I was in Wisdom Hely’s. )_

CORNY KELLEHER: _(From the car, standing. )_

FLORRY: _(Sinking into torpor, crossing herself secretly. The Germans and the Japs were going to have their
little lookin, he affirmed. With an
accent on the whose. Where’s my hat?

He walked jerkily into the office behind, parting the vent of his
jacket, jingling his keys in his back pocket. To read only the black ones: round o and crooked ess. Thanks awfully muchly. Bloom approaches. —-There he is again, says Joe. They
wouldn’t care about the smell of it. THE WHORES: _(Laughing. He’s the organiser in point of fact. Jacky Caffrey clasps to
climb. Agenbite. I am the
secretary. Very strange about my watch. I’m not a triple screw
propeller. )_ Mortal! _(Kindly. He
declaimed in song, pointing sternly at professor MacHugh:

     ’Twas rank and fame that tempted thee,
     ’Twas empire charmed thy heart. I want patience,
said he, with those who, without wit to enliven or learning to
instruct, revile an ennobling profession which, saving the reverence
due to the Deity, is the greatest power for happiness upon the earth. )_ He said nothing. Walking down by the Tolka. Well, what are you gaping at?

—Yes, yes, Mr Bloom said after a dull sigh. Coin rang. Don’t know what death is at that age. Were there marks of hospitality which he contemplated but suppressed,
reserving them for another and for himself on future occasions to
complete the act begun?

The reparation of a fissure of the length of 1 1/2 inches in the right
side of his guest’s jacket. But he has to say something. My son inside her. )_

BRIDIE: Hatch street. —Take a bit of doing, boss, retaliated that rough diamond palpably a
bit peeved in response to the foregoing truism. Conan Doyle, property of the City of
Dublin Public Library, 106 Capel street, lent 21 May (Whitsun Eve)
1904, due 4 June 1904, 13 days overdue (black cloth binding, bearing
white letternumber ticket). Let me go. Must be
a great tonic in the air down there. Irish by name and irish by nature, says Mr Stephen, and
he sent the ale purling about, an Irish bull in an English chinashop. With John Wyse Nolan Mr Power followed them in. Time’s livid final flame leaps and, in the following
darkness, ruin of all space, shattered glass and toppling masonry. Tiresome shapers scraping fiddles, eye on the
bowend, sawing the cello, remind you of toothache. He closed his long thin lips an instant but, eager to be on, raised an
outspanned hand to his spectacles and, with trembling thumb and
ringfinger touching lightly the black rims, steadied them to a new
focus. But stun myself too in the blow. Wren had one the other day at
the auction but a lady’s. _Prima facie_, I put it to you that there was no attempt at
carnally knowing. Weighs on his mind. Bet your boots on. —Am I right, skipper? he queried of the sailor, now returning after his
private potation and the rest of his exertions. —That model schoolboy, Stephen said, would find Hamlet’s musings about
the afterlife of his princely soul, the improbable, insignificant and
undramatic monologue, as shallow as Plato’s. I will. Flakes of
pastry on the gusset of her dress: daub of sugary flour stuck to her
cheek. He was starving too though he
hadn’t said a word about it. Got big then. Did he remain?

With deep inspiration he returned, retraversing the garden, reentering
the passage, reclosing the door. Nicer if a
nice girl did it. _He’s dead_, he said. As sure as
we are standing here the jew merchants are already at their work of
destruction. Perchè la sua voce. —_This morning_ (Hynes put it in of course) _the remains of the late Mr
Patrick Dignam were removed from his residence, no 9 Newbridge Avenue,
Sandymount, for interment in Glasnevin. Bed: ed. Dowden believes there is
some mystery in _Hamlet_ but will say no more. She’s
right after all. Not a word. Become invisible. What various advantages would or might have resulted from a
prolongation of such an extemporisation?

For the guest: security of domicile and seclusion of study. what should he
say?. Never put a dress on her back like it. B. Sad end of
government printer’s clerk. They can’t manage
men’s intervals. There was a dosshouse in Marlborough street, Mrs
Maloney’s, but it was only a tanner touch and full of undesirables but
M’Conachie told him you got a decent enough do in the Brazen Head over
in Winetavern street (which was distantly suggestive to the person
addressed of friar Bacon) for a bob. What’s the time by your gold watch and
chain?

M’Coy peered into Marcus Tertius Moses’ sombre office, then at
O’Neill’s clock. Elijah, skiff, light crumpled throwaway, sailed eastward by flanks of
ships and trawlers, amid an archipelago of corks, beyond new Wapping
street past Benson’s ferry, and by the threemasted schooner _Rosevean_
from Bridgwater with bricks. What recurrent impressions of the same were possible by hypothesis?

Retreating, at the terminus of the Great Northern Railway, Amiens
street, with constant uniform acceleration, along parallel lines
meeting at infinity, if produced: along parallel lines, reproduced from
infinity, with constant uniform retardation, at the terminus of the
Great Northern Railway, Amiens street, returning. Better not stick here all night like a limpet. A pillar of the cloud by day. On the doorstep he felt in his hip pocket for the latchkey. Tap. Then I did Rip van Winkle coming back. Because attraction between
agent(s) and reagent(s) at all instants varied, with inverse proportion
of increase and decrease, with incessant circular extension and radial
reentrance. Her words rang out crystalclear, more musical than the cooing of the
ringdove, but they cut the silence icily. LINKS WITH BYGONE DAYS OF YORE


—Grattan and Flood wrote for this very paper, the editor cried in his
face. Dennany, monumental builder
and sculptor. So anyhow Terry brought the three pints Joe was standing and begob the
sight nearly left my eyes when I saw him land out a quid. Dee. And that other old mosey lunatic in those duds. Yes, he’s here still. —Ten minutes, Martin Cunningham said, looking at his watch. E. paying for the three. Why
hast thou done this abomination before me that thou didst spurn me for
a merchant of jalaps and didst deny me to the Roman and to the Indian
of dark speech with whom thy daughters did lie luxuriously? Look forth
now, my people, upon the land of behest, even from Horeb and from Nebo
and from Pisgah and from the Horns of Hatten unto a land flowing with
milk and money. Nip the first rattler. And they will come again and with a vengeance, no
cravens, the sons of Granuaile, the champions of Kathleen ni Houlihan. Kneel down before me. Talk: as if
that would mend matters. Prr. Don’t eat a beefsteak. Demme, does not Doctor O’Gargle chuck the nuns there under the
chin. And a good
armful she was. Quicklime feverpits to eat them. Pat set with ink pen quite
flat pad. Show us the entrance out. The news was imparted with a circumspection recalling the ceremonial
usage of the Sublime Porte by the second female infirmarian to the
junior medical officer in residence, who in his turn announced to the
delegation that an heir had been born. H. Gahan, their stretched
necks wagging, negotiated the curve by the College library. Tootling. What is the
meaning of that other world. Bred in the bone. She understood little of political
complications, internal, or balance of power, external. I see. Léo Taxil nous a dit que qui l’avait mise dans cette
fichue position c’était le sacré pigeon, ventre de Dieu! Entweder_
transubstantiality _oder_ consubstantiality but in no case
subsubstantiality. —We don’t want him, says Crofter the Orangeman or presbyterian. Gob, it’d turn the porter sour in your guts, so it
would. —You know yourself, councillor, just what he wants. What do ye lack? Soon got, soon gone. Tame essence of Wilde. He leads John Eglinton who wears a
mandarin’s kimono of Nankeen yellow, lizardlettered, and a high pagoda
hat. What? Looked?. Thought so. It lowers. They purchase four and twenty ripe plums from
a girl at the foot of Nelson’s pillar to take off the thirst of the
brawn. From a long face a beard and gaze hung on a chessboard. Living on
the fat of the land. —Yes, Mr Bloom said. Then out there came the jew’s daughter
     And she all dressed in green. —Antisthenes, pupil of Gorgias, Stephen said, took the palm of beauty
from Kyrios Menelaus’ brooddam, Argive Helen, the wooden mare of Troy
in whom a score of heroes slept, and handed it to poor Penelope. She praised the goodness of the milk, pouring it out. Capped
corners, rivetted edges, double action lever lock. Where? I need mountain air. —He was a rich country gentleman, Stephen said, with a coat of arms and
landed estate at Stratford and a house in Ireland yard, a capitalist
shareholder, a bill promoter, a tithefarmer. It was down a manhole. Give
and have done with it. —Instead of blocking up the thoroughfare, Martin Cunningham said. The door of Ruttledge’s office creaked again. Sit down a moment. Isn’t that history? Royal Dublin Fusiliers. He
winked. We’re on the right lay,
Bob, believe you me. _(He turns to his subjects. Hide gold there. _ O yes, _mon loup_. Even that brute today. Have you the? _Cloche. and Stephen, each in his own particular way, both
instinctively exchanged meaning glances, in a religious silence of the
strictly _entre nous_ variety however, towards where Skin-the-Goat,
_alias_ the keeper, not turning a hair, was drawing spurts of liquid
from his boiler affair. STEPHEN: See? Moves to one great goal. —Poldy!

Entering the bedroom he halfclosed his eyes and walked through warm
yellow twilight towards her tousled head. Miss Douce
huffed and snorted down her nostrils that quivered imperthnthn like a
snout in quest. From house to
house, giving his everwelcome double knock, went the nine o’clock
postman, the glowworm’s lamp at his belt gleaming here and there
through the laurel hedges. Did she know what I? Course. A certain gombeen man of our acquaintance. Every bullet has its billet. ? Of course it’s years ago. as
position. So he took a bundle of wisps of letters and envelopes out of his
pocket. Music. He was in deep mourning, she could see that, and the story
of a haunting sorrow was written on his face. Molly in
Citron’s basketchair. A faithless wife first brought the
strangers to our shore here, MacMurrough’s wife and her leman,
O’Rourke, prince of Breffni. Gerty smiled assent and bit her lip. Belle in her bloomers misconducting herself, and her fancyman feeling
for her tickles and Norman W. For
yourselves just. Walk now. Or
Bennett’ll shove you in the lockup. They had no idea it was that high. Bring all your powers of
fascination to bear on them. )_ Breach of promise. Mr Bloom reached Essex
bridge. Best value in Dub. Taking what belongs
to us by right. Heartbeats: her breath:
breath that is life. He raised his forefinger and beat the air oldly before his voice spoke. Because the weight of
the water, no, the weight of the body in the water is equal to the
weight of the what? Or is it the volume is equal to the weight? It’s a
law something like that. Musemathematics. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1. The best obtainable. The pretty lips pouted awhile but then she glanced up and broke out
into a joyous little laugh which had in it all the freshness of a young
May morning. But that’s the most notorious bloody robber you’d meet in a
day’s walk and the face on him all pockmarks would hold a shower of
rain. —Sure, you’d burst the tympanum of her ear, man, Mr Dedalus said
through smoke aroma, with an organ like yours. O, my rib risible! Taking off his flat spaugs and the
walk. He came over to the gunrest and, thrusting a hand into Stephen’s upper
pocket, said:

—Lend us a loan of your noserag to wipe my razor. _Corpus paradisum. Do, Ben, do. Still the blue
eyes were glistening with hot tears that would well up so she kissed
away the hurtness and shook her hand at Master Jacky the culprit and
said if she was near him she wouldn’t be far from him, her eyes dancing
in admonition. He stood up. Lie. Sell on
easy terms to capture trade. New set of microbes. BLOOM: _(Terrified. )_

DLUGACZ: _(Hoarsely. —Let me alone, says he. I am
just looking at them: well pared. Then lump them together to save time. Women. Behold the handmaid of the moon. —Telegram! he said. SECOND WATCH: It’s our duty. Time makes the tune. No black clouds anywhere, are there?
Thunderstorm. )_
Come on, you British army!

PRIVATE CARR: _(Behind his back. _(He listens. Buck Mulligan wiped the razorblade neatly. He
brought it near his eyes and peered. ; the very rev. Far out over the sands the coming surf crept,
grey. Deaf bald Pat brought pad knife took up. Jesus, I had to laugh at pisser Burke taking them
off chewing the fat. But how? She must. The cat mewed in answer and stalked again stiffly round a leg of the
table, mewing. Dedalus’ daughter there still outside Dillon’s auctionrooms. No, ants too. The gentleman with the glasses opposite Father
Conmee had finished explaining and looked down. Why do they hide their ears with seaweed hair? And Turks
the mouth, why? Her eyes over the sheet. She smelt an onion. J. )_ Mercurial Malachi!

THE MOTHER: _(With the subtle smile of death’s madness. —I am happier than you are, he said. We had a midnight lunch too after
all the jollification and when we sallied forth it was blue o’clock the
morning after the night before. The
motion is ended. As not more abnormal than all other
parallel processes of adaptation to altered conditions of existence,
resulting in a reciprocal equilibrium between the bodily organism and
its attendant circumstances, foods, beverages, acquired habits,
indulged inclinations, significant disease. No poetic licence. Inked characters fast fading on the frayed breaking paper. White’s,
the pawnbroker’s, at the corner of Arran street west stroking his nose
with his forefinger, undecided whether he should arrive at Phibsborough
more quickly by a triple change of tram or by hailing a car or on foot
through Smithfield, Constitution hill and Broadstone terminus. STEPHEN: _(At the pianola, making a gesture of abhorrence. Not see. She broke off suddenly. Or hers. Leverage, see?

He showed them the rising column of disks on the right. Hell’s
delights! She has a fine pair, God bless her. S. When the sound of his boots had ceased Davy Byrne said from his book:

—What is this he is? Isn’t he in the insurance line?

—He’s out of that long ago, Nosey Flynn said. Well sung. Ballsbridge. An imperceptible smile played
round her perfect lips as she turned to him calmly. Night of the dance dressing. I was present. Leopold, yes. The gravediggers bore the coffin
and set its nose on the brink, looping the bands round it. The answer to the
honourable member’s question is in the affirmative. Great battle,
Tokio. CAVALIERS: May I touch your?

HOURS: O, but lightly!

CAVALIERS: O, so lightly!

THE PIANOLA:

     My little shy little lass has a waist. They took the liberty of burying him this morning
anyhow. —Scutter! he cried thickly. The fellows that never will be slaves, with the only hereditary
chamber on the face of God’s earth and their land in the hands of a
dozen gamehogs and cottonball barons. Poor thing! Then having to give the breast
year after year all hours of the night. One
can see him, a model schoolboy with his diploma under his arm. —I want you to write something for me, he said. There’s a
drowning case at Sandycove may turn up and then the coroner and myself
would have to go down if the body is found. _(He
explodes in a loud phlegmy laugh. _Ecco!_

LYNCH: _(With a mocking whinny of laughter grins at Bloom and Zoe
Higgins. By Brady’s cottages a boy for the skins lolled, his bucket
of offal linked, smoking a chewed fagbutt. Hm. CUNTY KATE: _(Blushing deeply. Wonder why he was struck off the rolls. When, then?

I paid my way. _ Not
that I. Melting breast ointments (_for him! For Raoul!_). —To cheer a fellow up, Martin Cunningham said. The name was familiar to him, that
is to say. His marital breast is
the repository of secrets which decorum is reluctant to adduce. Don’t you see what I mean?

—O, that be damned for a story, Mr Dedalus said. Money?

_(Zoe whispers to Florry. The name on the label is Plumtree. Still no matter what the cause is from. )_ I tried her things on only twice,
a small prank, in Holles street. Mr Dedalus sighed. —By Jesus, says he, I’ll brain that bloody jewman for using the holy
name. The pillared Moorish hall, shadows entwined. Dollard and Cowley still urged the lingering singer out with it. Minette? Tu veux?_

—The height of fine society. To learn one must be humble. T. ZOE: Go on. Do they notice
I’m in mourning? Uncle Barney said he’d get it into the paper tonight. Frailty, thy name is
marriage. Wish I could. Or will I drop into old
Harris’s and have a chat with young Sinclair? Wellmannered fellow. Crown of thorns and cross. Lose your customers that way. Crumbs adhered
to the tissue of his lips. Payment at the rate of one guinea per column. We have nothing in the house but backache pills. —A merchant, Stephen said, is one who buys cheap and sells dear, jew or
gentile, is he not?

—They sinned against the light, Mr Deasy said gravely. It is hard to lay down any hard and fast rules as to
right and wrong but room for improvement all round there certainly is
though every country, they say, our own distressful included, has the
government it deserves. —Good day, Myles, J. Up the fundament. Mr Bloom smiled joylessly on Ringsend road. Time going on. I’ll take a glass of burgundy and. A hackney car, number three hundred and twentyfour, driver Barton James
of number one Harmony avenue, Donnybrook, on which sat a fare, a young
gentleman, stylishly dressed in an indigoblue serge suit made by George
Robert Mesias, tailor and cutter, of number five Eden quay, and wearing
a straw hat very dressy, bought of John Plasto of number one Great
Brunswick street, hatter. FIRST WATCH: Name and address. Big Benben. Old Bloom. He moved a little to the side of M’Coy’s talking head. Wish I hadn’t met
that M’Coy fellow. P. There he
goes. Half a league onward! They charge! All is lost now! Do
we yield? No! We drive them headlong! Lo! We charge! Deploying to the
left our light horse swept across the heights of Plevna and, uttering
their warcry _Bonafide Sabaoth_, sabred the Saracen gunners to a man. Bloom looked, unblessed to go. He’s off. Understand animals too that way. Hands stuck in his trousers’ pockets,
jarvey off for the day, singing. —Haines is gone, he said. Moooikill A Aitcha Ha ignorant as a kish of brogues, worth
fifty thousand pounds. Happy. So saying he skipped around, nimbly considering, frankly at the same
time apologetic to get on his companion’s right, a habit of his, by the
bye, his right side being, in classical idiom, his tender Achilles. )_

THE DUMMYMUMMY: Bbbbblllllblblblblobschbg!

_(Far out in the bay between Bailey and Kish lights the_ Erin’s King
_sails, sending a broadening plume of coalsmoke from her funnel towards
the land. Six. Is that?. Simple bit of paper. C. Lapwing. Telegram!
Malachi Mulligan, The Ship, lower Abbey street. Still
hear it better here than in the bar though farther. Got the provinces now. She follows her
mother with ungainly steps, a mare leading her fillyfoal. In life. Dearer far than song or wine. _Bless me and let me
go. I have passed the way to aunt Sara’s. I must give you a shirt
and a few noserags. Restless. It was getting
darker but he could see and he was looking all the time that he was
winding the watch or whatever he was doing to it and then he put it
back and put his hands back into his pockets. When first he saw that form
endearing? Yes, it is. Collide. Give up the
moody brooding. They used to call him big
Ben. Almost see them shimmering, kind of a bluey
white. Better. But, I say, Mulligan, you do
make strong tea, don’t you?

Buck Mulligan, hewing thick slices from the loaf, said in an old
woman’s wheedling voice:

—When I makes tea I makes tea, as old mother Grogan said. Find the way in. —I’ll tell you how it was, Myles Crawford began. And on the highway of the clouds they come, muttering thunder of
rebellion, the ghosts of beasts. No, the dog. Done. A heavy stye droops over her sleepy eyelid. Murderer’s ground. Heavy Gatling guns
boom. Backache he. Now it could bear no more. Windows open. Pure curd soap. Sad music. Developing waterways. )_

THE VIRAGO: Signs on you, hairy arse. All
ears. Cruel. He felt it incumbent on
him to say a few words. Well, you can do that
and just a little par calling attention. Yom Kippur fast spring cleaning of
inside. Stand up to it then with force like men. Earth for instance pulling this and being pulled. )_ Weep not for me, O daughters of Erin. Alas!

Full tup. Hurrah there, Dix! Forward
to the ribbon counter. FATHER MALACHI O’FLYNN: _(Takes from the chalice and elevates a
blooddripping host. Professor
Goodwin, in a bowknotted periwig, in court dress, wearing a stained
inverness cape, bent in two from incredible age, totters across the
room, his hands fluttering. _

—Turn over, Stephen said quietly. It pleased Father Conmee, road and name. Well?

—It was the speech, mark you, the professor said, of a finished orator,
full of courteous haughtiness and pouring in chastened diction I will
not say the vials of his wrath but pouring the proud man’s contumely
upon the new movement. Only your bounden
duty. Wonder if Tom Rochford will do anything with that invention of
his? Wasting time explaining it to Flynn’s mouth. Smack. Martin Cunningham spoke by turns, twirling the peak of his beard, to
the assistant town clerk and the subsheriff, while John Wyse Nolan held
his peace. Postoffice. He pressed (the same who pressed
indulgently her hand), soft pedalling, a triple of keys to see the
thicknesses of felt advancing, to hear the muffled hammerfall in
action. Call away let him: _thy quarrons
dainty is_. He threw an odd eye at the same
time now and then at Stephen’s anything but immaculately attired
interlocutor as if he had seen that nobleman somewhere or other though
where he was not in a position to truthfully state nor had he the
remotest idea when. The peers do homage, one by one, approaching and
genuflecting. )_

THE MAN IN THE MACINTOSH: Don’t you believe a word he says. Old
Barbary ape that gobbled all his family. —The will to live, John Eglinton philosophised, for poor Ann, Will’s
widow, is the will to die. Take care they didn’t lift anything off him. Callboy’s warning. Dreadful life sailors have too. —And the dirty scrawl of the wretch, says Joe. M’Curdy Atkinson,
     The same that had the wooden leg
     And that filibustering filibeg
     That never dared to slake his drouth,
     Magee that had the chinless mouth. His dark eyes fixed themselves on her again drinking in her
every contour, literally worshipping at her shrine. All laughed. Quest for the philosopher’s
stone. Of course they understand birds, animals, babies. With mother’s money order, eight shillings, the banging
door of the post office slammed in your face by the usher. Too far for me to lay a hand there once or
lightly. Major Tweedy, moustached like Turko the terrible, in
bearskin cap with hackleplume and accoutrements, with epaulettes, gilt
chevrons and sabretaches, his breast bright with medals, toes the line. The driver never said a word, good, bad or indifferent, but merely
watched the two figures, as he sat on his lowbacked car, both black,
one full, one lean, walk towards the railway bridge, _to be married by
Father Maher_. , the 9th power of the 9th power
of 9, that, the result having been obtained, 33 closely printed volumes
of 1000 pages each of innumerable quires and reams of India paper would
have to be requisitioned in order to contain the complete tale of its
printed integers of units, tens, hundreds, thousands, tens of
thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions, tens of millions, hundreds
of millions, billions, the nucleus of the nebula of every digit of
every series containing succinctly the potentiality of being raised to
the utmost kinetic elaboration of any power of any of its powers. _(Stephen, flourishing the ashplant in his left hand, chants with joy
the_ introit _for paschal time. Am I not right?

He turned a long you are wrong gaze on Stephen of timorous dark pride
at the soft impeachment with a glance also of entreaty for he seemed to
glean in a kind of a way that it wasn’t all exactly. He prodded a fork into the kidney and slapped it over: then fitted the
teapot on the tray. Gold, pink and violet lights start
forth. He rises slowly. In Grafton street Master Dignam saw a red flower in a toff’s mouth and
a swell pair of kicks on him and he listening to what the drunk was
telling him and grinning all the time. High voices. A ponderous Saxon. He’s bringing the programme. A quiver of minnows, fat of a
spongy titbit, flash through the slits of his buttoned trouserfly. Hackett, C. A hoarse
virago retorts. I felt her pulse. Last tip to titivate. Time someone thought about it instead of gassing about the
what was it the pensive bosom of the silver effulgence. They don’t care what
man looks. Prff!

THE NYMPH: _(Loftily. Go to hell! I paid my
way. He
took a cigarette from the case. Tritonville road. Mount
Carmel. Old wall where sudden lizards flash. My arks she called it. At one, he
said. Today. Hereditary taste. An original sin and, like original sin,
committed by another in whose sin he too has sinned. As applied to Her Royal
Highness. _(Silent, thoughtful, alert he stands on guard, his fingers at his lips
in the attitude of secret master. Wait till I
have a few pints in me first. Fell asleep then. Late lieabed under a quilt of old overcoats, fingering a
pinchbeck bracelet, Dan Kelly’s token. Steve, thou art in a parlous way. The professor grinned, locking his long lips. Stop or I’ll tell the missus on you. That was the night. Did he fall?

By his body’s known weight of eleven stone and four pounds in
avoirdupois measure, as certified by the graduated machine for
periodical selfweighing in the premises of Francis Froedman,
pharmaceutical chemist of 19 Frederick street, north, on the last feast
of the Ascension, to wit, the twelfth day of May of the bissextile year
one thousand nine hundred and four of the christian era (jewish era
five thousand six hundred and sixtyfour, mohammadan era one thousand
three hundred and twentytwo), golden number 5, epact 13, solar cycle 9,
dominical letters C B, Roman indiction 2, Julian period 6617, MCMIV. A few pastilles
of aconite. Hell did I
put? Some pock or oth. They are not going to get me this innings. KITTY: _(Laughing. Also he took the cup that stood
tofore him for him needed never none asking nor desiring of him to
drink and, Now drink, said he, fully delectably, and he quaffed as far
as he might to their both’s health for he was a passing good man of his
lustiness. —So it was, begad, Ned Lambert agreed. I
mean when we read the poetry of _King Lear_ what is it to us how the
poet lived? As for living our servants can do that for us, Villiers de
l’Isle has said. )_

LATE LORD MAYOR HARRINGTON: _(In scarlet robe with mace, gold mayoral
chain and large white silk scarf. Softly. There Leop. Day the wheel of the black Maria peeled off my shoe at Leonard’s
corner. —Bloom, says he. To the
old dingdong again. )_ Leo! _(Twittering. For what personal purpose could Bloom have applied the water so boiled?

To shave himself. I zmellz de bloodz
odz an Iridzman. Good idea the Latin. The Roman, like the
Englishman who follows in his footsteps, brought to every new shore on
which he set his foot (on our shore he never set it) only his cloacal
obsession. —A wolf in sheep’s clothing, says the citizen. Puck Mulligan, panamahelmeted, went step by step, iambing, trolling:

     John Eglinton, my jo, John,
     Why won’t you wed a wife?

He spluttered to the air:

—O, the chinless Chinaman! Chin Chon Eg Lin Ton. If I hadn’t
heard about Mrs Beaufoy Purefoy I wouldn’t have gone and wouldn’t have
met. (He snaps his jaws suddenly on the air. Martha, the bath, funeral,
house of Keyes, museum with those goddesses, Dedalus’ song. —Give it a name, citizen, says Joe. Under an arch of triumph Bloom appears, bareheaded, in a crimson velvet
mantle trimmed with ermine, bearing Saint Edward’s staff, the orb and
sceptre with the dove, the curtana. Remember her laughing at the
wind, her blizzard collar up. The priest and the massboy stood up and walked off. P. Tell her I was axing at her. —A pier, sir, Armstrong said. H. t. The printed matter on it stated: _Choza de Indios. Round the side of the _Evening
Telegraph_ he just caught a fleeting glimpse of her face round the side
of the door with a kind of demented glassy grin showing that she was
not exactly all there, viewing with evident amusement the group of
gazers round skipper Murphy’s nautical chest and then there was no more
of her. Pearls: when she. P. Taking a man from another woman. Yes, used to carry
punched tickets to prove an alibi if they arrested you for murder
somewhere. Tight as a
skullpiece a tiny hat gripped his head. A listless lady, no more young, walked alone the shore of lough Ennel,
Mary, first countess of Belvedere, listlessly walking in the evening,
not startled when an otter plunged. )_
Spontaneously to seek out the saurian’s lair in order to entrust their
teats to his avid suction. :

—Considerations of space influenced their lordships’ decision. All watched awhile through their windows caps and hats lifted by
passers. Want. Trenchant exponent of Shakespeare. Thinking strictly prohibited. On the
upper shelf a battery of jamjars (empty) of various sizes and
proveniences. Good health, citizen. Well educated. Why? My joy is other
joy. Mr Best turned to him. Oot: a dullgarbed old man from the curbstone tendered his wares, his
mouth opening: oot. )_ He will surely remember. )_ I rererepugnosed in rerererepugnant. —Kinch ahoy!

Buck Mulligan’s voice sang from within the tower. That gave him the
leg up. Blazes Boylan handed her the bottle swathed in pink tissue paper
and a small jar. BLOOM: I want to tell you a little secret about how I came to be here. N. —How do you know that? Mr Dedalus asked, his tongue in his cheek. _(She
reclines her head, sighing. Tupper bouncing in with his peashooter
just in time to be late after she doing the trick of the loop with
officer Taylor. Peter and Paul. Blind
faith. _When We Were Boys_ by William O’Brien M. New worlds for old. If thou didst ever. Not, he
parenthesised, that for the sake of filthy lucre he need necessarily
embrace the lyric platform as a walk in life for any lengthy space of
time. It’s about the
foot and mouth disease. LENEHAN: What about mixed bathing?

_(Bloom explains to those near him his schemes for social regeneration. Sixteen years ago. The gravest problems of obstetrics and forensic medicine
were examined with as much animation as the most popular beliefs on the
state of pregnancy such as the forbidding to a gravid woman to step
over a countrystile lest, by her movement, the navelcord should
strangle her creature and the injunction upon her in the event of a
yearning, ardently and ineffectually entertained, to place her hand
against that part of her person which long usage has consecrated as the
seat of castigation. Young student. txt or 4300-0. Lobbing about waiting for him. Lord! It was all things
combined. That’s what life is after all. Then a lot of shillyshally usually followed, Tom for and Dick and
Harry against. MRS BREEN: _(All agog. His second course. Besides I can’t be so if Molly. His eyes said:

—Not here. _Autontimorumenos. As regards Bloom he, without
the faintest suspicion of a smile, merely gazed in the direction of the
door and reflected upon the historic story which had aroused
extraordinary interest at the time when the facts, to make matters
worse, were made public with the usual affectionate letters that passed
between them full of sweet nothings. He proves by
algebra that Shakespeare’s ghost is Hamlet’s grandfather. Then her eyes rest on Bloom
with hard insistence. Turn up with
a veil and black bag. _(He frowns mysteriously. THE WATERFALL:

     Poulaphouca Poulaphouca
     Phoucaphouca Phoucaphouca. Afraid of the
chookchooks. Puts gusto into it. A meek smile accompanied him as he lifted the counterflap, as he passed
in through a sidedoor and along the warm dark stairs and passage, along
the now reverberating boards. —_Thanky vous_, Lenehan said, helping himself. The
third brother that always marries the sleeping beauty and wins the best
prize. A circle. _(The brake cracks violently. Might have taken me to Malahide or a siding
for the night or collision. God, I thank thee, as the Author of my days!
Thrice happy will he be whom so amiable a creature will bless with her
favours. _—I paid my way. Wild excitement. )_ A noble work! I scolded that tramdriver on
Harold’s cross bridge for illusing the poor horse with his harness
scab. He would go to Buxton
probably for the waters. —Hello? _Evening Telegraph_ here. He read, _marcato:_

—Characters:

     TOBY TOSTOFF (a ruined Pole)
     CRAB (a bushranger)
     MEDICAL DICK )
         and      ) (two birds with one stone)
     MEDICAL DAVY )
     MOTHER GROGAN (a watercarrier)
     FRESH NELLY
         and
     ROSALIE (the coalquay whore). org. E. You little expected me but
I’ve come to stay and make a fresh start. Wait a moment. Beside the young man he looked also at the photo of the lady now his
legal wife who, he intimated, was the accomplished daughter of Major
Brian Tweedy and displayed at an early age remarkable proficiency as a
singer having even made her bow to the public when her years numbered
barely sweet sixteen. Strong as a brood
mare some of those horsey women. Criminal diversion? I think that yes. Gospeltrue. I have much, much to learn. At Dolphin’s barn charades in Luke Doyle’s
house. Milly too. The spry rattle had run on in the same vein of mimicry but for some
larum in the antechamber. He
implored me to soil his letter in an unspeakable manner, to chastise
him as he richly deserves, to bestride and ride him, to give him a most
vicious horsewhipping. Thus, or words
to that effect, saith Zarathustra, sometime regius professor of French
letters to the university of Oxtail nor breathed there ever that man to
whom mankind was more beholden. t. 11. Why?

—A gifted man, Mr Bloom said of Mr Dedalus senior, in more respects
than one and a born _raconteur_ if ever there was one. But it’s the evening influence. I remember only ideas and
sensations. Yes. Hee hee hee hee. Well, I must be. Henry Flower. Corny Kelleher on the
sideseat sways his head to and fro in sign of mirth at Bloom’s plight. Everyone says I am quite the belle in my new tam. VIRAG: We can do you all brands, mild, medium and strong. —Good, Stephen said. Before and after. I you he they. )_ Peace,
perfect peace. Frockcoats. Each is equally important. Pretty girls and ugly
men marrying. Then I don’t know about the next number. Street of harlots
after. For Gerty had her
dreams that no-one knew of. )_ The mouth can be better engaged than with a
cylinder of rank weed. O’MADDEN BURKE: Free fox in a free henroost. Hundred shillings to five. The doorknob hit Mr Bloom in the small of the back as the door was
pushed in. Then they sang the second verse of the _Tantum ergo_ and Canon O’Hanlon
got up again and censed the Blessed Sacrament and knelt down and he
told Father Conroy that one of the candles was just going to set fire
to the flowers and Father Conroy got up and settled it all right and
she could see the gentleman winding his watch and listening to the
works and she swung her leg more in and out in time. And a pull all
together. —Is that her? asked miss Kennedy. There is a word throstle that expresses that. THE CROWD: Let him up! Don’t strike him when he’s down! Air! Who? The
soldier hit him. All
the toady news. More sensible to spend the money on
some charity for the living. The adiaphane in the noon
of life is an Egypt’s plague which in the nights of prenativity and
postmortemity is their most proper _ubi_ and _quomodo_. Paris rawly waking, crude sunlight on her lemon streets. Bell scared him
out, I suppose. Father Bernard Vaughan’s sermon first. m. Mr Mulligan, now perceiving the table, asked for
whom were those loaves and fishes and, seeing the stranger, he made him
a civil bow and said, Pray, sir, was you in need of any professional
assistance we could give? Who, upon his offer, thanked him very
heartily, though preserving his proper distance, and replied that he
was come there about a lady, now an inmate of Horne’s house, that was
in an interesting condition, poor body, from woman’s woe (and here he
fetched a deep sigh) to know if her happiness had yet taken place. And how’s the old heart, citizen? says
he. He went. )_

STEPHEN: _(Strangled with rage. He might be Mulligan. Not go in and blurt out what you know you’re not to: what’s parallax?
Show this gentleman the door. Gravediggers bury Hamlet _père_ and Hamlet _fils. Two bridegrooms
laughing heartily at each other. )_

LYNCH: _(Laughs. _(She blushes and makes a
knee. Like
the way it curves there. Have another quart of goosegrease
before it gets too cold. )_ Ay! Hands up to De Wet. Well out of that ruck I
am. —The temperaments at the door, Stephen interposed with, were very
passionate about ten shillings. —I’m talking about injustice, says Bloom. Couch a hogshead with me then. )_ But in here it is I must kill the priest and the king. Jing. Hell open to christians they were having, Jimmy Henry said pettishly,
about their damned Irish language. —Who? Blazes? says Joe. )_

RUDOLPH: Second halfcrown waste money today. Nothing to feed on feed on themselves. Pander to their Gomorrahan vices. Flattery where least expected. Johnston) on the events of the past, or fixtures for the actual, years,
entitled _If Brian Boru could but come back and see old Dublin now_,
commissioned by Michael Gunn, lessee of the Gaiety Theatre, 46, 47, 48,
49 South King street, and to be introduced into the sixth scene, the
valley of diamonds, of the second edition (30 January 1893) of the
grand annual Christmas pantomime _Sinbad the Sailor_ (produced by R. Just to see: before: dressing. —He might, Mr Dedalus said, if he hadn’t that squint troubling him. Tap. )_

BLOOM: _(In red fez, cadi’s dress coat with broad green sash, wearing a
false badge of the Legion of Honour, picks up the card hastily and
offers it. Weeny bones. All I can give you I give. Very same teeth she has. laws alone swamp our small staff. I belongs there. A stooped bearded figure appears garbed in the long
caftan of an elder in Zion and a smokingcap with magenta tassels. And begob what was it only that bloody old pantaloon Denis Breen
in his bathslippers with two bloody big books tucked under his oxter
and the wife hotfoot after him, unfortunate wretched woman, trotting
like a poodle. How Giuglini began. Towards
Larry O’Rourke, in shirtsleeves in his doorway, he growled unamiably:

—_For England_. )_ I was once
the beautiful May Goulding. Poor man O’Connor wife and five children
poisoned by mussels here. The harlot’s cry from street to street
     Shall weave old England’s windingsheet. No soul will live there. There’s not sixpenceworth of damage done. And it’s extremely curious the smell. P. Fit for a prince’s. Highclass
licensed premises. —Was Mr Boylan looking for me?

He asked. She mightn’t like me to come that way without
letting her know. Highly providential was the appearance on the
scene of Corny Kelleher when Stephen was blissfully unconscious but for
that man in the gap turning up at the eleventh hour the finis might
have been that he might have been a candidate for the accident ward or,
failing that, the bridewell and an appearance in the court next day
before Mr Tobias or, he being the solicitor rather, old Wall, he meant
to say, or Mahony which simply spelt ruin for a chap when it got
bruited about. Bone them
young so they metamspychosis. —There, Martin Cunningham helped, pointing also. All that surgical skill could do was done and the brave
woman had manfully helped. _Silentium!_
Get a spurt on. _(They whisk black masks from raw babby faces: then, chuckling,
chortling, trumming, twanging, they diddle diddle cakewalk dance
away. Gassy thing that cider: binding too. All hearts
were beating. Screwed refusing to pay his fare. I know him. With thumb
and palm Corny Kelleher reassures that the two bobbies will allow the
sleep to continue for what else is to be done. L. The ruffin
cly the nab of Stephen Hand as give me the jady coppaleen. What’s your name, sir?
Dunne, says he. You and me, don’t you
know: in the same boat. And he’s gone, poor little Willy,
poor little Paddy Dignam. _—Sonnez!_

Smack. Dark poplars,
rare white forms. Bartell d’Arcy sang and Benjamin
Dollard. O Doady, loved one of old, faithful lifemate now,
it may never be again, that faroff time of the roses! With the old
shake of her pretty head she recalls those days. His heavy hand took Stephen’s firmly. Lenehan stopped and leaned on the riverwall, panting with soft
laughter. First I saw. _Thom’s Dublin Post Office Directory_, 1886. A shut door of a silent tower, entombing their blind
bodies, the panthersahib and his pointer. Maximum the
second. Open like flowers, know their hours, sunflowers, Jerusalem artichokes,
in ballrooms, chandeliers, avenues under the lamps. Will eat anything. Ventriloquise. —Yes, Mr Deasy said. I’ll tickle his catastrophe, believe you me. Wire in yet?

Not yet. Of course the cells or whatever
they are go on living. Fall
quite flat. Beauty of music you
must hear twice. )_

BELLA: You’ll know me the next time. ?

Stephen, patently crosstempered, repeated and shoved aside his mug of
coffee or whatever you like to call it none too politely, adding:

—We can’t change the country. And Edy Boardman was rocking the chubby baby to
and fro in the pushcar while that young gentleman fairly chuckled with
delight. Miss puny little Edy’s countenance fell to no slight extent and Gerty
could see by her looking as black as thunder that she was simply in a
towering rage though she hid it, the little kinnatt, because that shaft
had struck home for her petty jealousy and they both knew that she was
something aloof, apart, in another sphere, that she was not of them and
never would be and there was somebody else too that knew it and saw it
so they could put that in their pipe and smoke it. THE VOICE OF FLORRY: Here. To make the blind see I throw dust in their eyes. The citizen said nothing only cleared the spit out of his gullet and,
gob, he spat a Red bank oyster out of him right in the corner. Ay, ay. —It’s fireworks, Cissy Caffrey said. )_ Can you do a man’s
job?

BLOOM: Eccles street. I shee you, shir. Yes. Guesswork it
reduced itself to eventually. dis. H. Throw it there. )_ Poli. Forms more frequent, white shapes thronged amid the
trees, white forms and fragments streaming by mutely, sustaining vain
gestures on the air. He scratched imprecisely with his right hand, though insensible of
prurition, various points and surfaces of his partly exposed, wholly
abluted skin. I knelt once before today. Who?

—Who may he be? he asked. Catch em alive, O. Uropoetic. Wonder where it is really. They asked for
Mulcahy from the Coombe and were told where he was buried. —Paris, past and present, he said. Eh? Ah, bloody nonsense. Lost. From the liberties, out for the day. Hoarse, masked and armed, the
planters’ covenant. I am lonely here. Mine over there towards Finglas, the plot I bought. Molloy, sung by Madam
Antoinette Sterling) open at the last page with the final indications
_ad libitum, forte_, pedal, _animato_, sustained pedal, _ritirando_,
close. Bad for you, dear, to sit on that stone. Nearly over. _—Why will you jews not accept our culture, our religion and our
language? You are a tribe of nomad herdsmen: we are a mighty people. —It must have fell down, she said. —Yes, sir, she said. History, would
you be surprised to learn, proves up to the hilt Spain decayed when the
inquisition hounded the jews out and England prospered when Cromwell,
an uncommonly able ruffian who in other respects has much to answer
for, imported them. O’Molloy said politely. Bushe defended him. Suppose. _(Bloom’s weather. Hello. Tiny roulette planets fly from his hands. )_

REUBEN J: _(Whispers hoarsely. I
wished I hadn’t laughed so much. Run the line
out to the cemetery gates and have special trams, hearse and carriage
and all. In. Belly without blemish, bulging big, a buckler of taut vellum, no,
whiteheaped corn, orient and immortal, standing from everlasting to
everlasting. No book. Why do I always think
Figather? Gathering figs, I think. —And that one was Judas, Stephen said, who up to then had said nothing
whatsoever of any kind. Douce Lydia. At the same time he inwardly chuckled over
his gentle repartee to the blood and ouns champion about his god being
a jew. —What belongs, queried Mr Bloom bending, fancying he was perhaps under
some misapprehension. The joybells were ringing in gay Malahide. )_ Me? Ten shillings? Haven’t
you lifted enough off him? Didn’t he. Bloom alone. The highroads are dreary but they
lead to the town. And they shackled him hand and
foot and would take of him ne bail ne mainprise but preferred a charge
against him for he was a malefactor. Be acted on. And free our native land. Wants it real bad. What perfume does your wife? I want to know. Her woman’s instinct told her that
she had raised the devil in him and at the thought a burning scarlet
swept from throat to brow till the lovely colour of her face became a
glorious rose. Her falcon eyes glitter. Ruins and tenements. Had Pyrrhus not fallen by a beldam’s hand in Argos or Julius Caesar not
been knifed to death. Oughtn’t to have given that child an empty teat to suck. )_ Hog’s Norton where the pigs plays the organs. _Punkt. Birth every year almost. Cup of tea soon. Horseness is the whatness of
allhorse. Married. You never saw him
any way screwed but still and for all that she would not like him for a
father because he was too old or something or on account of his face
(it was a palpable case of Doctor Fell) or his carbuncly nose with the
pimples on it and his sandy moustache a bit white under his nose. The twins scuttle off in the
dark. On the road to Malahide. Day we went out for the pleasure cruise in
the Erin’s King, throwing them the sack of old papers. —I’ll engage he did, Mr Dedalus said. Plasto’s. —What are you doing here, Stephen?

Dilly’s high shoulders and shabby dress. But
I am descended from sir John Blackwood who voted for the union. Lulls all pain. He lives in number 2 Dolphin’s Barn. Christian brother boys. From the sidemirrors two mourning
Masters Dignam gaped silently. _

Haines sat down to pour out the tea. He trod the worn steps,
pushed the swingdoor and entered softly by the rere. LYNCH: Damn your yellow stick. If
they don’t see. Good morning, have you used Pears’
soap? Dandruff on his shoulders. —Who won, Mr Lenehan? says Terry. —Yes, Mrs Breen said. Richie cocked his lips apout. _

Tap. Here. He never existed. Two old
Dublin women on the top of Nelson’s pillar. —Full stop, Mr Deasy bade his keys. I
seen icebergs plenty, growlers. )_ Only the ethereal. )_ Incline feet
forward! Slide left foot one pace back! You will fall. Queer the number of pins they always have. THE MOTHER: _(Her face drawing near and nearer, sending out an ashen
breath. He studded under each lifted strip yellow blobs. )_ An omelette on the. In societate humana hoc est maxime necessarium ut sit
amicitia inter multos. The sugared sonnets follow Sidney’s. )_ I’m sure you’re a spoiled priest. Even
the allwisest Stagyrite was bitted, bridled and mounted by a light of
love. Wristwatches are always going wrong. Since I fed the birds five
minutes. —He wants it in for July, Mr Bloom said. He strolled out of the shop, the newspaper baton under his armpit, the
coolwrappered soap in his left hand. Stephen totters, collapses, falls, stunned. Mr S. Armpits’ oniony sweat. P. You will not be
master of others or their slave. BLOOM: _(Hearing a male voice in talk with the whores on the doorstep,
pricks his ears. Why that highclass
whore in Jammet’s wore her veil only to her nose. A sofa upholstered in prune plush had been translocated from opposite
the door to the ingleside near the compactly furled Union Jack (an
alteration which he had frequently intended to execute): the blue and
white checker inlaid majolicatopped table had been placed opposite the
door in the place vacated by the prune plush sofa: the walnut sideboard
(a projecting angle of which had momentarily arrested his ingress) had
been moved from its position beside the door to a more advantageous but
more perilous position in front of the door: two chairs had been moved
from right and left of the ingleside to the position originally
occupied by the blue and white checker inlaid majolicatopped table. So in the future, the sister of the past, I may see myself as I sit
here now but by reflection from that which then I shall be. Ay, and rinse the seven of them well, mind, or lap it up like
champagne. )_

BEST: _(Smiling, lifts the hat and displays a shaven poll from the
crown of which bristles a pigtail toupee tied with an orange topknot. Unfortunately, I didn’t catch the
latter portion. Distance. *    *    *


As they trod across the thick carpet Buck Mulligan whispered behind his
Panama to Haines:

—Parnell’s brother. Beautiful on that _tre_ her voice is: weeping tone. _(He stands at Cormack’s corner, watching. They make
you kaputt, Leopoldleben. His tuneful whistle sounds again, finely shaded, with rushes of the
air, his fists bigdrumming on his padded knees. Creating the works from print editions not protected by U. )_

     She has it, she got it,
     Wherever she put it,
     The leg of the duck. Mr Mulligan, I’ll be bound, has his theory too of the play and of
Shakespeare. They
mock to try you. Conscious that the human organism,
normally capable of sustaining an atmospheric pressure of 19 tons, when
elevated to a considerable altitude in the terrestrial atmosphere
suffered with arithmetical progression of intensity, according as the
line of demarcation between troposphere and stratosphere was
approximated from nasal hemorrhage, impeded respiration and vertigo,
when proposing this problem for solution, he had conjectured as a
working hypothesis which could not be proved impossible that a more
adaptable and differently anatomically constructed race of beings might
subsist otherwise under Martian, Mercurial, Veneral, Jovian, Saturnian,
Neptunian or Uranian sufficient and equivalent conditions, though an
apogean humanity of beings created in varying forms with finite
differences resulting similar to the whole and to one another would
probably there as here remain inalterably and inalienably attached to
vanities, to vanities of vanities and to all that is vanity. Same here. Then tear asunder. Wait till I
catch you for that. —What was that, Joe? says I. Akasic
records of all that ever anywhere wherever was. Touch and go with him. He’s gone to Gill’s to buy it. )_ Fbhracht!

BLOOM: _(Contemptuously. Hermit with a
platter of pulse keep down the stings of the flesh. My two feet in his boots are at the ends
of his legs, _nebeneinander_. —Have you a cheese sandwich?

—Yes, sir. Curious, fifteenth of the month too. I’m hungry too. Our
staple food. A wine of shame, lust, blood
exudes, strangely murmuring. O’Molloy said, taking out a cigarettecase in
murmuring meditation, but it is not always as it seems. Settling those napkins. E. Cissy came up along the strand with the two twins and their ball with
her hat anyhow on her to one side after her run and she did look a
streel tugging the two kids along with the flimsy blouse she bought
only a fortnight before like a rag on her back and a bit of her
petticoat hanging like a caricature. Get it out in bits. And the tephilim no what’s this they call it poor papa’s father had on
his door to touch. —Tweedy. Who wants your opinion? Let us drink our
pints in peace. Six years. I could. She’s not exactly witty. Swell blowout. Mr Deasy is calling you. Corny Kelleher stepped aside from his rank and allowed the mourners to
plod by. )_

LYNCH: So that?

STEPHEN: (_Looks behind_. And Molly was laughing because Rogers and Maggot O’Reilly
were mimicking a cock as we passed a farmhouse and Marcus Tertius
Moses, the tea merchant, drove past us in a gig with his daughter,
Dancer Moses was her name, and the poodle in her lap bridled up and you
asked me if I ever heard or read or knew or came across. Plup. And Jacky Caffrey shouted to look, there was another and she leaned
back and the garters were blue to match on account of the transparent
and they all saw it and they all shouted to look, look, there it was
and she leaned back ever so far to see the fireworks and something
queer was flying through the air, a soft thing, to and fro, dark. In 1936 when Bloom would be 70 and Stephen 54
their ages initially in the ratio of 16 to 0 would be as 17 1/2 to 13
1/2, the proportion increasing and the disparity diminishing according
as arbitrary future years were added, for if the proportion existing in
1883 had continued immutable, conceiving that to be possible, till then
1904 when Stephen was 22 Bloom would be 374 and in 1920 when Stephen
would be 38, as Bloom then was, Bloom would be 646 while in 1952 when
Stephen would have attained the maximum postdiluvian age of 70 Bloom,
being 1190 years alive having been born in the year 714, would have
surpassed by 221 years the maximum antediluvian age, that of
Methusalah, 969 years, while, if Stephen would continue to live until
he would attain that age in the year 3072 A. C. Bloom follows and picks
it up. Buck Mulligan kicked Stephen’s foot under the table and said with
warmth of tone:

—Wait till you hear him on Hamlet, Haines. Pungent smoke
shot up in an angry jet from a side of the pan. )_ After him!

_(The two whores rush to the halldoor. This very church. Rain. )_ Eh! _(He calls again. Wagging his ear. In motion being
each and both carried westward, forward and rereward respectively, by
the proper perpetual motion of the earth through everchanging tracks of
neverchanging space. Agenbite of inwit. Each has his banjo slung. A wariness of mind he would answer as fitted
all and, laying hand to jaw, he said dissembling, as his wont was, that
as it was informed him, who had ever loved the art of physic as might a
layman, and agreeing also with his experience of so seldomseen an
accident it was good for that mother Church belike at one blow had
birth and death pence and in such sort deliverly he scaped their
questions. —Saint Thomas, Stephen smiling said, whose gorbellied works I enjoy
reading in the original, writing of incest from a standpoint different
from that of the new Viennese school Mr Magee spoke of, likens it in
his wise and curious way to an avarice of the emotions. The gravediggers took up their spades and flung heavy clods of clay in
on the coffin. Laurence O’Toole and S. )_ And the missus is master. There she goes. Sweet lemony wax. Again. Tea. Close shave that but cured the stitch. Master Patrick Aloysius Dignam came out of Mangan’s, late Fehrenbach’s,
carrying a pound and a half of porksteaks. When?

Going to dark bed there was a square round Sinbad the Sailor roc’s
auk’s egg in the night of the bed of all the auks of the rocs of
Darkinbad the Brightdayler. In the open
space of the doorway the man reappeared without his hat, with his
candle. )_ You
have nothing?

ZOE: Is he hungry?

STEPHEN: _(Extends his hand to her smiling and chants to the air of the
bloodoath in the_ Dusk of the Gods. On. —The wife has a fine voice. A youth entered a lonely Ormond hall. He’s gone
too. Like
Milly’s was. )_ Now then our glory song. He puffed a pungent plumy blast. Soft mark. In the
course of its extension several buildings and monuments are demolished. Mr Bloom reviewed the nails of his left hand, then those of his right
hand. Shows you the money to be
made out of porter. Got bet be a boomblebee whenever he wus
settin sleepin in hes bit garten. At me. The gasjet wails whistling. They would be
just good friends like a big brother and sister without all that other
in spite of the conventions of Society with a big ess. Too poetical that about the sad. _(Bloom holds up his right hand on which sparkles the Koh-i-Noor
diamond. Find damn all of himself that morning. )_ Overtones. Read your own obituary notice they say you live
longer. —By the holy Paul! Mr Dedalus said in subdued wonder. Do you think the writer of _Antony and Cleopatra_, a
passionate pilgrim, had his eyes in the back of his head that he chose
the ugliest doxy in all Warwickshire to lie withal? Good: he left her
and gained the world of men. Course nerves a bit. —Ahem! he said very softly. [ 3 ]


Ineluctable modality of the visible: at least that if no more, thought
through my eyes. You told the Clongowes gentry you
had an uncle a judge and an uncle a general in the army. Magennis thinks you must have
been pulling A. _(He cries. Unseen, one summer eve, you kissed me in
four places. She’s a gamey
mare and no mistake. He
can’t sing for tall hats. The key scraped round harshly twice and, when the heavy door had been
set ajar, welcome light and bright air entered. )_ I love you, sir darling. BLOOM: Ten and six. Malachi Mulligan is coming too. Get back
then by the Poolbeg road to the strand there. /WI. E. As in what ways?

From inexistence to existence he came to many and was as one received:
existence with existence he was with any as any with any: from
existence to nonexistence gone he would be by all as none perceived. Expect this is the. Did
you hear Miss Mitchell’s joke about Moore and Martyn? That Moore is
Martyn’s wild oats? Awfully clever, isn’t it? They remind one of Don
Quixote and Sancho Panza. Went out in a puff. — II —


[ 4 ]

Mr Leopold Bloom ate with relish the inner organs of beasts and fowls. O, her mouth in the dark! And you a married man with a
single girl! That’s what they enjoy. —And if not? he said. Silly season. Squealing cat. , signor Laci Daremo, the robust tenor, blueeyed Bert, the liftboy,
Henri Fleury of Gordon Bennett fame, Sheridan, the quadroon Croesus,
the varsity wetbob eight from old Trinity, Ponto, her splendid
Newfoundland and Bobs, dowager duchess of Manorhamilton. Where do they get that?
Typist going up Roger Greene’s stairs two at a time to show her
understandings. MEMORABLE BATTLES RECALLED


—North Cork militia! the editor cried, striding to the mantelpiece. Something poisonous I ate. You
see if you can get it into your two papers. O, look we are so! Chamber music. m. It was effaced as easily as it had
been evoked by an allocution from Mr Candidate Mulligan in that vein of
pleasantry which none better than he knew how to affect, postulating as
the supremest object of desire a nice clean old man. _Amor vero aliquid alicui bonum vult unde et ea quae concupiscimus. The man hearkened to
her words for he felt with wonder women’s woe in the travail that they
have of motherhood and he wondered to look on her face that was a fair
face for any man to see but yet was she left after long years a
handmaid. You know Holohan?

—Hop and carry one, is it? Myles Crawford said. Deadly agony. _All’erta!_

He drones bars of Ferrando’s _aria di sortita_. )_

BLOOM: Eh! Ho! _(There is no answer; he bends again. )_

BLOOM: _(Propping him. In silence they drove along Phibsborough road. For identification, bucket in my hand. —Right now? First turn to the left. Far in the grey a bell chimed. Bowls them over. I’m told it’s a grand language by them that knows. The presence even for a moment among a
party of debauchees of a woman endued with every quality of modesty and
not less severe than beautiful refrained the humourous sallies even of
the most licentious but her departure was the signal for an outbreak of
ribaldry. Weary they curchycurchy under
veils. Off the drunks perhaps. Many a time and
oft were they wont to come there to that favourite nook to have a cosy
chat beside the sparkling waves and discuss matters feminine, Cissy
Caffrey and Edy Boardman with the baby in the pushcar and Tommy and
Jacky Caffrey, two little curlyheaded boys, dressed in sailor suits
with caps to match and the name _H. Gerty is
Tommy’s sweetheart. But beshrew me,
he cried, clapping hand to his forehead, tomorrow will be a new day
and, thousand thunders, I know of a _marchand de capotes_, Monsieur
Poyntz, from whom I can have for a _livre_ as snug a cloak of the
French fashion as ever kept a lady from wetting. Canadian) expansion and the evolutionary theories of
Charles Darwin, expounded in _The Descent of Man_ and _The Origin of
Species_. —We thought you were someone else. VIRAG: _(Cynically, his weasel teeth bared yellow, draws down his left
eye with a finger and barks hoarsely. I know that. Noise of the trams
probably. I
between them. _(Virag truculent, his jowl set, stares at the lamp. Wonderful
organisation certainly, goes like clockwork. Lenehan’s yachting cap on the cadge beyond. Solomons in the window of the Austro-Hungarian viceconsulate. VIRAG: _(His mouth projected in hard wrinkles, eyes stonily forlornly
closed, psalms in outlandish monotone. Pat went. of electricity. Astronomy it was about. )_

BLOOM: _(Communes with the night. )_

FLORRY: What?

_(A hackneycar, number three hundred and twentyfour, with a
gallantbuttocked mare, driven by James Barton, Harmony Avenue,
Donnybrook, trots past. The
beaters approach with imperial eagles hoisted, trailing banners and
waving oriental palms. The finest display of oratory I
ever heard was a speech made by John F Taylor at the college historical
society. Long John Fanning could not remember him. E. —The sacred pint alone can unbind the tongue of Dedalus, he said. Almost taste them by looking. They passed from behind Mr Bloom along the curbstone. Milly served
me that cutlet with a sprig of parsley. Tip. Railed off the altar get on to it at any cost. _(Familiarly. Kidneys were in his mind as he moved about the kitchen softly, righting
her breakfast things on the humpy tray. They could
invent a handsome bier with a kind of panel sliding, let it down that
way. K. Mr Bloom put his face forward to catch the words. Pebbles fell. Wine. They have no mercy
on that here or infanticide. Gob, he near burnt his fingers with the butt of his old cigar. BLOOM: I? When? You’re dreaming. Drunkards out to shake up their livers. Buck Mulligan sighed and, having filled his mouth with a crust thickly
buttered on both sides, stretched forth his legs and began to search
his trouser pockets. Flap ears to match. Gerty wished to goodness they would take their squalling baby home out
of that and not get on her nerves, no hour to be out, and the little
brats of twins. —Most pertinent question, the professor said between his chews. Belluomo rises from the bed of his wife’s lover’s wife, the
kerchiefed housewife is astir, a saucer of acetic acid in her hand. Glad I avoided. A juicy pear or ladies’ punch, hot, strong and sweet. That is why mystic monks. They saluted him and were saluted. I presume you shall have remembered what I will have
taught you on that head? Wheatenmeal with honey and nutmeg. You had enough. He also yielded to none in his admiration of
Rossini’s _Stabat Mater_, a work simply abounding in immortal numbers,
in which his wife, Madam Marion Tweedy, made a hit, a veritable
sensation, he might safely say, greatly adding to her other laurels and
putting the others totally in the shade, in the jesuit fathers’ church
in upper Gardiner street, the sacred edifice being thronged to the
doors to hear her with virtuosos, or _virtuosi_ rather. Her master, the _Mona_’s, said he
was afraid his collision bulkhead would give way. I called about the poor and water rate,
Mr Boylan. The dwarf acolytes, giggling, peeping, nudging, ogling,
Easterkissing, zigzag behind him. _(He gazes
intently downwards on the water. With a cock with a carra. I tried it. —What’s in the pot? she asked. Vibrations: chords those are. As they turned into Berkeley street a streetorgan near the Basin sent
over and after them a rollicking rattling song of the halls. Hiesos Kristos, magician of the beautiful, the Logos who
suffers in us at every moment. He broke off and lathered again lightly his farther cheek. —Pyrrhus, sir? Pyrrhus, a pier. They both, it seems, had been overtaken
by the rain and for all their mending their pace had taken water, as
might be observed by Mr Mulligan’s smallclothes of a hodden grey which
was now somewhat piebald. )_

THE BEATITUDES: _(Incoherently. —My missus has just got an engagement. His hand looking for the where did I put found in his hip pocket soap
lotion have to call tepid paper stuck. —Some, Dilly said. _Tiens, quel petit pied!_
Staunch friend, a brother soul: Wilde’s love that dare not speak its
name. He is pelted with
gravel, cabbagestumps, biscuitboxes, eggs, potatoes, dead codfish,
woman’s slipperslappers. He gets the plums, and I the
plumstones. You have every bit
as much right to live by your pen in pursuit of your philosophy as the
peasant has. Tan shoes. 1. Thanks, that was heavenly. A knight of the rueful
countenance here in Dublin. _Zoe mou sas agapo_. Nightstock in Mat
Dillon’s garden where I kissed her shoulder. He
is all in all. He rubs
grimly his grappling hands, knobbed with knuckledusters. The best pucker going
for strength was Fitzsimons. Lawksamercy, doctor, cried
the young blood in the primrose vest, feigning a womanish simper and
with immodest squirmings of his body, how you do tease a body! Drat the
man! Bless me, I’m all of a wibbly wobbly. The blind stripling tapped the curbstone and went on his way, drawing
his cane back, feeling again. Sun’s heat it is. Hangmen’s letters. )_

ZOE: You’ll know me the next time. Unsightly like a clot of phlegm. —I fear those big words, Stephen said, which make us so unhappy. BEAUFOY: _(Shouts. You’ll be taught the error of your
ways. Against the dark wall a figure
appears slowly, a fairy boy of eleven, a changeling, kidnapped, dressed
in an Eton suit with glass shoes and a little bronze helmet, holding a
book in his hand. Ivers, P. I forgot. What discrete succession of images did Stephen meanwhile perceive?

Reclined against the area railings he perceived through the transparent
kitchen panes a man regulating a gasflame of 14 CP, a man lighting a
candle of 1 CP, a man removing in turn each of his two boots, a man
leaving the kitchen holding a candle. Ikey touch
that: homerule sun rising up in the northwest. ) Schorach ani wenowach,
benoith Hierushaloim. Flatters them. )_ You know how difficult it is. Would he bleed if a nail say cut him in
the knocking about? He would and he wouldn’t, I suppose. As he walked he took the folded
_Freeman_ from his sidepocket, unfolded it, rolled it lengthwise in a
baton and tapped it at each sauntering step against his trouserleg. He would not believe in
love, a woman’s birthright. O’Neill’s funeral establishment where Corny
Kelleher totted figures in the daybook while he chewed a blade of hay. —First, our little financial settlement, he said. He lifted his yachtingcap and scratched his hindhead
rapidly. Two kindling
faces watched her bend. Alone, what did Bloom hear?

The double reverberation of retreating feet on the heavenborn earth,
the double vibration of a jew’s harp in the resonant lane. He went out through the backdoor into the garden: stood to listen
towards the next garden. Three bob a day, walking along the gutters, street after
street. It? Them. The Lord has spoken to Malachi. Put them all on to take them all off. )_

LYNCH: _(Watching him. And
Mastiansky with the old cither. His
breath hangs over our saucestained plates, the green fairy’s fang
thrusting between his lips. Go for one another baldheaded in the papers and then
all blows over. I’ll look today. I don’t want Richard, my name. Sixpences, halfcrowns. )_

THE VIRGINS: _(Gushingly. Me, Magee and Mulligan. )_ There’s a row on. Maud Gonne’s letter about taking them off
O’Connell street at night: disgrace to our Irish capital. —Honest injun, says Alf. —What links them in nature? An instant of blind rut. )_ Thank you very
much, gentlemen. You are lovely, Gerty, it said. _—Et ne nos inducas in tentationem. With awe Mr
Power’s blank voice spoke:

—Some say he is not in that grave at all. Shoulders. Nothing
new under the sun. The slight _contretemps_ claimed her attention but in two twos she set
that little matter to rights. That’s why she won’t
let me have anything to do with you. John Eglinton touched the foil. Ten bob I got for Molly’s combings when
we were on the rocks in Holles street. I. )_ A holy abbot you want or Brophy, the lame
gardener, or the spoutless statue of the watercarrier, or good mother
Alphonsus, eh Reynard?

THE NYMPH: _(With a cry flees from him unveiled, her plaster cast
cracking, a cloud of stench escaping from the cracks. Wonder if that dodge works now getting dicky meat off
the train at Clonsilla. Have you got that?

He flung back pages of the files and stuck his finger on a point. THE YEWS: Ssh! Sister, speak!

THE NYMPH: _(Eyeless, in nun’s white habit, coif and hugewinged wimple,
softly, with remote eyes. E. All clapped. Wonder does the news
go about whenever a fresh one is let down. J. I will appear to you after
death. In Lower
Mount street a pedestrian in a brown macintosh, eating dry bread,
passed swiftly and unscathed across the viceroy’s path. Flowers her eyes were, take me, willing
eyes. Nature notes. I said I. _Que
voulez-vous?_ Moore would say. Levanted with the cash of a few ads. Funeral was this morning. Jokes old stale now. Why mutable (aliorelative)?

From infancy to maturity he had resembled his maternal procreatrix. They take advantage. Hard. Marshall’s dark horse _Sir Hugo_ captured the blue ribband at long
odds. Tell her a ghost story in bed to
make her sleep. And look at the lovely shell
she brought. Not my fault, old cockalorum. _Slan leath. Now won’t you? Molly and Josie Powell. Can you give
us a good one for the Gold cup?

—I’m off that, Mr Flynn, Davy Byrne answered. —I saw him before I met you, says I, sloping around by Pill lane and
Greek street with his cod’s eye counting up all the guts of the fish. An illgirt server gathered sticky clattering plates. He heaves his
booty, tugs askew his peaked cap and hobbles off mutely. Kraahraark! Hellohellohello amawfullyglad kraark awfullygladaseeagain
hellohello amawf krpthsth. They went past the bleak pulpit of saint Mark’s, under the railway
bridge, past the Queen’s theatre: in silence. His
unglazed linen collar appeared behind his bent head, soiled by his
withering hair. )_ No
bloody fear. All this I promise to do. She
would fain have cried to him chokingly, held out her snowy slender arms
to him to come, to feel his lips laid on her white brow, the cry of a
young girl’s love, a little strangled cry, wrung from her, that cry
that has rung through the ages. The circulation stops. _) Password. _Esprit de corps_. —Jack, love!

—Darling!

—Kiss me, Reggy!

—My boy!

—Love!

His heart astir he pushed in the door of the Burton restaurant. Low sank the music, air and words. Might just walk into her here. Alf Bergan will speak to the long fellow. —Expecting every moment will be his next, says Lenehan. Moored under the trees of Charleville Mall Father Conmee saw a
turfbarge, a towhorse with pendent head, a bargeman with a hat of dirty
straw seated amidships, smoking and staring at a branch of poplar above
him. Every mortal day
a fresh batch: middleaged men, old women, children, women dead in
childbirth, men with beards, baldheaded businessmen, consumptive girls
with little sparrows’ breasts. John Nepomuc and S. —_Full of hope and all delighted_. Aha! By the ass of the Dorans you’ll find I’m a
martinet. —Here, Simon, I’ll accompany you, he said. —Who tried the case? says Joe. The death struggle. Drowning they say is the pleasantest. Cissy Caffrey whistled, imitating the boys in the football field to
show what a great person she was: and then she cried:

—Gerty! Gerty! We’re going. )_ Ah! Lobster and mayonnaise. —I see, he said again with new pleasure. Speaking about me. Leopold cut liverslices. Thrilled she listened, bending in sympathy to hear. Why was the host (reluctant, unresisting) still?

In accordance with the law of the conservation of energy. We didn’t hear. A croppy boy. Shrill, with deep laughter, after, gold after bronze, they urged each
each to peal after peal, ringing in changes, bronzegold, goldbronze,
shrilldeep, to laughter after laughter. Kavanagh, C. John Wyse Nolan opened wide eyes. Gone. Eating orangepeels in the park. PRIVATE COMPTON: _(Pulling his comrade. On the
hands down. He’s traipsing all round Dublin with a
postcard someone sent him with U. SPARTANS GNASH
MOLARS. Remembering thee, O Sion. Bridie! Bridie Kelly!
He will never forget the name, ever remember the night: first night,
the bridenight. Combustible duck. Sings too: _Down among the dead men. You bowed to yourself in the mirror, stepping forward to applause
earnestly, striking face. Well the foreskin is
not back. No, he’s going on straight. Chopsticks? Conmee: Martin Cunningham knows him: distinguishedlooking. _

—You are a delusion, said roundly John Eglinton to Stephen. In Lionel Marks’s antique saleshop window haughty Henry Lionel Leopold
dear Henry Flower earnestly Mr Leopold Bloom envisaged battered
candlesticks melodeon oozing maggoty blowbags. Dull, gloomy: hate
this hour. Understanding, he shifted his tomes to his left breast and saluted the
second carriage. Let them all go to pot. What limitations of activity and inhibitions of conjugal rights were
perceived by listener and narrator concerning themselves during the
course of this intermittent and increasingly more laconic narration?

By the listener a limitation of fertility inasmuch as marriage had been
celebrated 1 calendar month after the 18th anniversary of her birth (8
September 1870), viz. The threemaster _Rosevean_
from Bridgwater with bricks. A mouthful of tea. Fff! Oo. —That’s right, Ned Lambert said. ’S filed before him, tallwhitehatted, past Tangier lane,
plodding towards their goal. FIRST WATCH: _(Reads. Since Easter he had cursed
three times. _ Surprise, horror, loathing were
depicted on all faces while he eyed them with a ghostly grin. Did either openly allude to their racial difference?

Neither. Ought I go to
a dentist, I wonder, with that money? That one. Call it, let me see. Let people get fond of each other: lure them
on. )_ Little jobs that make mother pleased, eh? And showed
off coquettishly in your domino at the mirror behind closedrawn blinds
your unskirted thighs and hegoat’s udders in various poses of
surrender, eh? Ho! ho! I have to laugh! That secondhand black operatop
shift and short trunkleg naughties all split up the stitches at her
last rape that Mrs Miriam Dandrade sold you from the Shelbourne hotel,
eh?

BLOOM: Miriam. ; the rev. Mr Bloom passed on out of the clanking noises through the gallery on to
the landing. Nausea. Closingtime, gents. Three times
now. Go further next time. Handsome is and handsome does. Same bait. —First my riddle, Lenehan said. Always want to be swilling in
company. A pure
misunderstanding. —Very smart, Mr O’Madden Burke said. Full as a tick. )_ Nay, dost not weepest!

BLOOM: _(Crawls jellily forward under the boughs, streaked by sunlight,
with dignity. And Edy Boardman
laughed too at the quaint language of little brother. And the other one Lizzie Twigg. Ba. —Of course, if he wants a par, Red Murray said earnestly, a pen behind
his ear, we can do him one. He says this, a censor of morals, a very
pelican in his piety, who did not scruple, oblivious of the ties of
nature, to attempt illicit intercourse with a female domestic drawn
from the lowest strata of society! Nay, had the hussy’s scouringbrush
not been her tutelary angel, it had gone with her as hard as with
Hagar, the Egyptian! In the question of the grazing lands his peevish
asperity is notorious and in Mr Cuffe’s hearing brought upon him from
an indignant rancher a scathing retort couched in terms as
straightforward as they were bucolic. Accepting the analogy implied in his guest’s parable which examples of
postexilic eminence did he adduce?

Three seekers of the pure truth, Moses of Egypt, Moses Maimonides,
author of _More Nebukim_ (Guide of the Perplexed) and Moses Mendelssohn
of such eminence that from Moses (of Egypt) to Moses (Mendelssohn)
there arose none like Moses (Maimonides). A sovereign fell, bright and new, on the soft pile of the tablecloth. Squareheaded chaps those must be in Rome: they
work the whole show. Dowie. A tall figure rose from the
hammock where it had been sitting, went to the doorway and pulled open
the inner doors. Fill me. Sixteenth. That’s marriage does, their wives. What was the name of that priestylooking chap was
always squinting in when he passed? Weak eyes, woman. Fleshpots of Egypt. Blueribboned hat. The navvy lurches against the lamp. 8 or 1. Or old rich chap of seventy and blushing bride. )_

BELLO: As a paying guest or a kept man? Too late. _

—What is that, Mr Dedalus? the quaker librarian asked. Plot, one hundred and one. _

—I know him well to see, Davy Byrne said. The melon he had he held against
my face. Will write fully tomorrow. —The noblest, the truest, says he. Aha. The coffin they
brought over was full of stones. Talking through his bloody hat. A most romantic incident occurred when a
handsome young Oxford graduate, noted for his chivalry towards the fair
sex, stepped forward and, presenting his visiting card, bankbook and
genealogical tree, solicited the hand of the hapless young lady,
requesting her to name the day, and was accepted on the spot. 5. He stated that this had greatly perturbed his peace of mind in
the other region and earnestly requested that his desire should be made
known. _Philosophy of the Talmud_ (sewn pamphlet). J. I often think of the
beautiful name you have. Practice makes perfect. Poop of a
lovely. —Ay, Paddy Leonard said. The son
unborn mars beauty: born, he brings pain, divides affection, increases
care. What’s in
a name? That is what we ask ourselves in childhood when we write the
name that we are told is ours. A child. Father Conmee gave a letter from his breast to Master Brunny Lynam and
pointed to the red pillarbox at the corner of Fitzgibbon street. The reverend Dr Salmon: tinned salmon. p: up. Mayonnaise I poured on the
plums thinking it was custard. John Eglinton laughed. Snip off with horsehair under the denned neck. Maeterlinck
says: _If Socrates leave his house today he will find the sage seated
on his doorstep. —Bravo! Clapclap. _ Kraaaaaa. The other problem raised by the same
inquirer is scarcely less vital: infant mortality. Girlgold she read and did not glance. _

He turned to Stephen and said:

—Seriously, Dedalus. I do wish I could punish you for that. V. Would to God that foresight had but remembered me to take my
cloak along! I could weep to think of it. Anyhow he was all in. Is that Crotty?

—Ringabella and Crosshaven, a voice replied groping for foothold. Bloom signed to
Pat, bald Pat is a waiter hard of hearing, to set ajar the door of the
bar. She whirls it back in right circle. Her nature. Hoarse
commands. Singular, communed the guest with himself, the
wonderfully unequal faculty of metempsychosis possessed by them, that
the puerperal dormitory and the dissecting theatre should be the
seminaries of such frivolity, that the mere acquisition of academic
titles should suffice to transform in a pinch of time these votaries of
levity into exemplary practitioners of an art which most men anywise
eminent have esteemed the noblest. Listening, he heard her voice:

—Come, come, pussy. —Lablache, said Father Cowley. Dear Henry wrote: dear Mady. Timing her. He jumped up and snatched the card. Fergus’
song: I sang it alone in the house, holding down the long dark chords. But sir Leopold was passing grave maugre his word by cause he still had
pity of the terrorcausing shrieking of shrill women in their labour and
as he was minded of his good lady Marion that had borne him an only
manchild which on his eleventh day on live had died and no man of art
could save so dark is destiny. Something the nurse taught me. They like
buttering themselves in and out. Pupil of Michael Balfe’s, wasn’t she?

He gazed after the last broad tunic. And the dark one with the mop head and the nigger mouth. And he had experience of the like brood
beasts and of springers, greasy hoggets and wether wool, having been
some years before actuary for Mr Joseph Cuffe, a worthy salesmaster
that drove his trade for live stock and meadow auctions hard by Mr
Gavin Low’s yard in Prussia street. Where old Mrs Riordan died. Louis H. No eunuch yet with all his belongings. Meretricious finery to deceive the eye. —Someone killed her, Stephen said gloomily. , when he’s quite sure which country it is. young man, watchful among the warm sweet fumes of
Graham Lemon’s, placed a throwaway in a hand of Mr Bloom. Like that haughty
creature at the polo match. Lawyers of the past, haughty, pleading, beheld pass from the
consolidated taxing office to Nisi Prius court Richie Goulding carrying
the costbag of Goulding, Collis and Ward and heard rustling from the
admiralty division of king’s bench to the court of appeal an elderly
female with false teeth smiling incredulously and a black silk skirt of
great amplitude. Mr Bloom watched curiously, kindly the lithe black form. He was laying his hand upon a winejar: Malachi saw it and
withheld his act, pointing to the stranger and to the scarlet label. Gob, he near sent
it into the county Longford. It’s the blood of the south. Attract men, small thing like that. Dollard, was it?
Dollard, yes. Let us go. I
munched hum un thu Unchster Bunk un Munchday. Rumour had it (though not proved) that she descended from the house of
the lords Talbot de Malahide in whose mansion, really an unquestionably
fine residence of its kind and well worth seeing, her mother or aunt or
some relative, a woman, as the tale went, of extreme beauty, had
enjoyed the distinction of being in service in the washkitchen. Thanks in silence. Turn about. An illstarched
dicky jutted up and with a rude gesture he thrust it back into his
waistcoat. Pity to
disturb them. Probably at his lunch. And just when he
and she. Ireland. So
much dead weight. In
the sunny patches one might easily have cooked on a stone a batch of
those buns with Corinth fruit in them that Periplipomenes sells in his
booth near the bridge. The
Right Honourable William Humble, earl of Dudley, G. Musical. Iterum. A soft qualm, regret, flowed down his backbone, increasing. You move a motion? Steve boy, you’re going it some. Fate. He looked at me. Redbank oysters
will shortly be upon us. Woods his name is. O’Molloy said, of Roman justice
as contrasted with the earlier Mosaic code, the _lex talionis_. Sheet of
her music blew out of my hand against the High school railings. In Gerard’s rosery of Fetter lane he walks, greyedauburn. Their mudcabins and their shielings by the roadside were laid
low by the batteringram and the _Times_ rubbed its hands and told the
whitelivered Saxons there would soon be as few Irish in Ireland as
redskins in America. Lovely air. _
Can’t see now. 2. _(She rushes out. Usual blarney. The
room in the hotel with hunting pictures. You
look damn well when you’re dressed. OX/W. Mark of the beast. Cheers. BLOOM: _(Looks downwards and perceives her unfastened bootlace. He followed his companions. S. Working away, tearing away. Dolor! O, he dolores! The voice of the mournful chanter called to
dolorous prayer. running in to loosen
a button. _That’s not Mulcahy_, says he, _whoever done it_. He remembered
one night long ago. Stop. _(He
wriggles forward and places an ear to the ground. The secret panel beside the chimney slid back
and in the recess appeared. The wheels
rattled rolling over the cobbled causeway and the crazy glasses shook
rattling in the doorframes. 16 years after in 1920 when Stephen would be of Bloom’s present
age Bloom would be 54. _ Shepherd his pipe. A general rush and scramble. His eyes met Mr Bloom’s eyes. Better value that for the money. _Short but yet Plain Elements of Geometry_ written in French by F. Two is company. But just then there was a slight altercation between Master Tommy and
Master Jacky. Walk after him now make him awkward like those newsboys me today. Penrose! That was that chap’s name. —You like it? J. —I told him your symbol of Irish art. Nosey Flynn pursed his lips. Pleasants street. P. )_ Hot hands cold gizzard. A sugarsticky girl
shovelling scoopfuls of creams for a christian brother. Pincushions. BLOOM: _(Seizes her wrist with his free hand. It’s like a fine
fine veil or web they have all over the skin, fine like what do you
call it gossamer, and they’re always spinning it out of them, fine as
anything, like rainbow colours without knowing it. Why Molly likes opoponax. )_

DAVY STEPHENS: _Messenger of the Sacred Heart_ and _Evening Telegraph_
with Saint Patrick’s Day supplement. In Inisfail the fair there lies a land, the land of holy Michan. That quack doctor for the clap used
to be stuck up in all the greenhouses. Jog jig jogged stopped. But want a good memory. Were these inventions principally intended for an improved scheme of
kindergarten?

Yes, rendering obsolete popguns, elastic airbladders, games of hazard,
catapults. He stood looking in at the two puckers stripped to their
pelts and putting up their props. Policeman’s lot is oft a happy one. —All too Irish, Stephen rejoined. Not too much polite. First, saved from waters of old Nile, among
bulrushes, a bed of fasciated wattles: at last the cavity of a
mountain, an occulted sepulchre amid the conclamation of the hillcat
and the ossifrage. Open your eyes now. Call tomorrow. I’ll be home shortly. Gaptoothed
Kathleen, her four beautiful green fields, the stranger in her house. —That covers my case, says Joe. —The strangers, says the citizen. I was with him no later than Friday last or Thursday was it
in the Arch. Penitent thief. The _Sea Venture_ comes home from Bermudas and
the play Renan admired is written with Patsy Caliban, our American
cousin. Fancy of a friend of mine. Nothing like a dressy
appearance. It was at the royal university dinner. Shouts rang shrill from the boys’ playfield and a whirring whistle. _
Now he’s got in with Blumenfeld. —Has been? the more experienced of the two objected, sticking to his
original point with a smile of unbelief. Oyster eyes. Does no harm. —You as a good catholic, he observed, talking of body and soul, believe
in the soul. A tear fell: one only. I for one certainly believe climate
accounts for character. Striding
past Finn’s hotel Cashel Boyle O’Connor Fitzmaurice Tisdall Farrell
stared through a fierce eyeglass across the carriages at the head of Mr
M. He gnashed in fury. He nodded to himself as he drew off his trousers and stood up, saying
tritely:

—Redheaded women buck like goats. Venus? Can’t tell yet. ”

     She took him by the lilywhite hand
     And led him along the hall
     Until she led him to a room
     Where none could hear him call. That the house in
which he was born be ornamented with a commemorative tablet and that
the thoroughfare hitherto known as Cow Parlour off Cork street be
henceforth designated Boulevard Bloom. He
unbuttoned successively in reversed direction waistcoat, trousers,
shirt and vest along the medial line of irregular incrispated black
hairs extending in triangular convergence from the pelvic basin over
the circumference of the abdomen and umbilicular fossicle along the
medial line of nodes to the intersection of the sixth pectoral
vertebrae, thence produced both ways at right angles and terminating in
circles described about two equidistant points, right and left, on the
summits of the mammary prominences. Why those plainclothes men are
always courting slaveys. He died quite suddenly,
poor fellow. You hear? It throbbed, pure, purer, softly
and softlier, its buzzing prongs. Thanks. I’m stony. As?

The prohibition of the use of fleshmeat and milk at one meal: the
hebdomadary symposium of incoordinately abstract, perfervidly concrete
mercantile coexreligionist excompatriots: the circumcision of male
infants: the supernatural character of Judaic scripture: the
ineffability of the tetragrammaton: the sanctity of the sabbath. All was lost now. A streamer bearing the legends_ Cead Mile Failte _and_ Mah Ttob
Melek Israel _spans the street. No: coming to me. The carriage swerved from the tramtrack to the
smoother road past Watery lane. He clasped his hands between his knees and, satisfied, sent his vacant
glance over their faces. What was he doing in Irishtown?

—Well, Mr Bloom said, his eyes returning, if I can get the design I
suppose it’s worth a short par. Thanks:
new tam: Mr Coghlan: lough Owel picnic: young student: Blazes Boylan’s
seaside girls. They are coming, waves. In a moment he reappears and hurries on. You daren’t budge. Driver in
John Long’s. Pikes clash on
cuirasses. )_ Is that the way to hand
the _pot_ to a lady? _(She stretches up to light the cigarette over the
flame, twirling it slowly, showing the brown tufts of her armpits. Paying
the piper. Please tell
me what is the meaning. I’ll soon be stretched
beside her. )_

PADDY DIGNAM: Pray for the repose of his soul. That’ll go in. —They say a man who does it is a coward, Mr Dedalus said. Mrs Beaufoy, Purefoy. ) Exit Judas. ) Ja, ich weiss, papachi. )_ O! O! Monsters! Cruel one!

BELLO: Ask for that every ten minutes. True in the larger analysis. In reply to a question as to his
first sensations in the great divide beyond he stated that previously
he had seen as in a glass darkly but that those who had passed over had
summit possibilities of atmic development opened up to them. Next year in Jerusalem. I. Long John Fanning made no way for them. Down in the
vaults of saint Werburgh’s lovely old organ hundred and fifty they have
to bore a hole in the coffins sometimes to let out the bad gas and burn
it. Watchers tway there walk, white sisters
in ward sleepless. —He wants you for the pressgang, J. Where then? If Socrates leave his house today,
if Judas go forth tonight. Same notice on the door. Police! Some H2O for a gent fainted. Orangekeyed ware, bought of Henry Price, basket, fancy goods, chinaware
and ironmongery manufacturer, 21, 22, 23 Moore street, disposed
irregularly on the washstand and floor and consisting of basin,
soapdish and brushtray (on the washstand, together), pitcher and night
article (on the floor, separate). )_

ELIJAH: No yapping, if you please, in this booth. Fingering still the letter in his pocket he drew the pin out of it. Corny Kelleher sped a silent jet of hayjuice arching from his mouth
while a generous white arm from a window in Eccles street flung forth a
coin. )_ Not man. Moutpat. Hell, blast ye! Scoot. His hands in his jacket pockets forgot to salute
but he offered to the three ladies the bold admiration of his eyes and
the red flower between his lips. She
brought back to his recollection the happy days of blissful childhood
together on the banks of Anna Liffey when they had indulged in the
innocent pastimes of the young and, oblivious of the dreadful present,
they both laughed heartily, all the spectators, including the venerable
pastor, joining in the general merriment. I hope he’s in purgatory now because
he went to confession to Father Conroy on Saturday night. Read the revelations that’s going on in the papers about flogging on
the training ships at Portsmouth. —Right, M’Coy said brightly. —Indeed it is, Mr Bloom said. White
slip of paper. There’s my son now, Danny,
run off to sea and his mother got him took in a draper’s in Cork where
he could be drawing easy money. Nix for
the hornies. Hast aught to give us?

Mine host bowed again as he made answer:

—What say you, good masters, to a squab pigeon pasty, some collops of
venison, a saddle of veal, widgeon with crisp hog’s bacon, a boar’s
head with pistachios, a bason of jolly custard, a medlar tansy and a
flagon of old Rhenish?

—Gadzooks! cried the last speaker. Couldn’t you do the Yeats touch?

He went on and down, mopping, chanting with waving graceful arms:

—The most beautiful book that has come out of our country in my time. —He would have been on the bench long ago, the professor said, only for. Stays. He lauded almost
extravagantly my nether extremities, my swelling calves in silk hose
drawn up to the limit, and eulogised glowingly my other hidden
treasures in priceless lace which, he said, he could conjure up. Nurse
Callan taken aback in the hallway cannot stay them nor smiling surgeon
coming downstairs with news of placentation ended, a full pound if a
milligramme. She’s game. )_

BLOOM: _(Excitedly. —I believe he is in Dublin somewhere, Stephen answered unconcernedly. —O, welcome back, miss Douce. —Well now I am, he mused. Won’t look. And what was his
name? Jack Sohan. Came from the turpentine probably in the
paint. Curlycues of chords. Father Conmee crossed to Mountjoy square. They always build
one door opposite another for the wind to. Can’t see it. After him toddles an obese grandfather rat on
fungus turtle paws under a grey carapace. Or sitting all
day typing. D. What announced the accomplishment of this rise in temperature?

A double falciform ejection of water vapour from under the kettlelid at
both sides simultaneously. Pious fraud but quite right: otherwise they’d have one
old booser worse than another coming along, cadging for a drink. CISSY CAFFREY: Yes, to go with him. It rains dragons’ teeth. What pleasant reflection accompanied this action?

The reflection that, apart from the letter in question, his magnetic
face, form and address had been favourably received during the course
of the preceding day by a wife (Mrs Josephine Breen, born Josie
Powell), a nurse, Miss Callan (Christian name unknown), a maid,
Gertrude (Gerty, family name unknown). Groangrousegurgling
Toft’s cumbersome whirligig turns slowly the room right roundabout the
room. Got wind of Dignam. )_

SIMON: That’s all right. So I just went round the back of the
yard to pumpship and begob (hundred shillings to five) while I was
letting off my _(Throwaway_ twenty to) letting off my load gob says I
to myself I knew he was uneasy in his (two pints off of Joe and one in
Slattery’s off) in his mind to get off the mark to (hundred shillings
is five quid) and when they were in the (dark horse) pisser Burke was
telling me card party and letting on the child was sick (gob, must have
done about a gallon) flabbyarse of a wife speaking down the tube _she’s
better_ or _she’s_ (ow!) all a plan so he could vamoose with the pool
if he won or (Jesus, full up I was) trading without a licence (ow!)
Ireland my nation says he (hoik! phthook!) never be up to those bloody
(there’s the last of it) Jerusalem (ah!) cuckoos. We have our greater
Ireland beyond the sea. Cross Ringabella haven mooncarole. He folded his razor neatly and with stroking palps of fingers felt the
smooth skin. I am glad to see it has not died
out. The distant hills seem. Clever idea Saint Patrick the shamrock. )_

STEPHEN: _(With elaborate gestures, breathing deeply and slowly. Bidding her neck and hands adieu miss Douce

—Those things only bring out a rash, replied, reseated. Here. The women
remained behind: thanksgiving. —Yes, sir, the chemist said. What does that mean?

He leaned downward and read near her polished thumbnail. And these
fishes lie in an oily water brought there from Portugal land because of
the fatness that therein is like to the juices of the olivepress. J. We gave our best blood to France and Spain, the
wild geese. There’s a bloody sight more pox
than pax about that boyo. After
liquids came solids. He would have withdrawn from the feast had not the
noise of voices allayed the smart. Cows in Connacht have long horns. —Eaten alive? a third asked the sailor. Wonderful of course if you say: good evening, and you see she’s
on for it: good evening. Because he was up one time in a
knacker’s yard. Not logwood that. Under the upswelling tide he saw the writhing weeds lift languidly and
sway reluctant arms, hising up their petticoats, in whispering water
swaying and upturning coy silver fronds. Go or turn? And this food? Eat it and get
all pigsticky. Same time might prefer a tie undone or
something. Head up!
Keep our flag flying! An eagle gules volant in a field argent
displayed. Do you think she was? Quite charming!

Then, suddenly overclouding all his features, he growled in a hoarsened
rasping voice as he hewed again vigorously at the loaf:

_—For old Mary Ann

She doesn’t care a damn. —A myriadminded man, Mr Best reminded. Sympathetic listener. be kind to Athos, Leopold. Death is the highest form
of life. Eleven, is it? I only heard
it last night. _ His boyson’s death is the deathscene of young Arthur in
_King John. A concave
mirror at the side presents to him lovelorn longlost lugubru
Booloohoom. _ And why no other children born? And his
first child a girl?

Afterwit. Like to answer them all. This gratuitous contribution of a humorous character occasioned a fair
amount of laughter among his _entourage_. Stephen whirls giddily. _(He frowns. _Sweetheart, goodbye!_

—I’m off, said Boylan with impatience. Round and round slow. : Narrator, N. Wine. —Drain? Lenehan said. —She got the things, she said. Prefer an ounce of opium. Wash off his sins of the world. His navelcord. )_

THE PEERS: I do become your liege man of life and limb to earthly
worship. Baldhead over the blind. Flayed glasseyed
sheep hung from their haunches, sheepsnouts bloodypapered snivelling
nosejam on sawdust. At night your wellcreamed braceletted hands will wear
fortythreebutton gloves newpowdered with talc and having delicately
scented fingertips. _Les petites femmes_. —Where? says Alf. Dignam. —Did I kill him, says he, or what?

And he shouting to the bloody dog:

—After him, Garry! After him, boy!

And the last we saw was the bloody car rounding the corner and old
sheepsface on it gesticulating and the bloody mongrel after it with his
lugs back for all he was bloody well worth to tear him limb from limb. No? Queer kind of chap. There’s hair. If I can get
away in time. VIRAG: _(Prompts in a pig’s whisper. And all cried out upon it for a very scurvy word. Lemons it is. —Why don’t you grow? asked Blazes Boylan. —Ladies and gentlemen, I am most deeply obliged by your kind
solicitations. )_

ALEXANDER J DOWIE: _(Violently. Sweets of sin. Baraabum. Some
person or persons invisible directed him to the male urinal erected by
the cleansing committee all over the place for the purpose but after a
brief space of time during which silence reigned supreme the sailor,
evidently giving it a wide berth, eased himself closer at hand, the
noise of his bilgewater some little time subsequently splashing on the
ground where it apparently awoke a horse of the cabrank. Mr Deasy looked down and held for awhile the wings of his nose tweaked
between his fingers. Deepsounding. BLOOM: They. Neck or
nothing. Finbarr and S. Requiem
mass. —The rain kept off. Skin breeds lice or vermin. How then
could you. )_
Line of fate. Attracta and S. That was the smartest piece
of journalism ever known. The flood is following me. He scalded
and rinsed out the teapot and put in four full spoons of tea, tilting
the kettle then to let the water flow in. Where are you now? Established 1763. Increase their flow. Bob Cowley lent him
his for the Wicklow regatta concert last year and never heard tidings
of it from that good day to this. ?

VIRAG: _(His tongue upcurling. Best value in Dub. Ravisher and ravished, what he would but would not, go with
him from Lucrece’s bluecircled ivory globes to Imogen’s breast, bare,
with its mole cinquespotted. —Yes, Mr Best said youngly. They pined in depth of ocean shadow, gold by the beerpull, bronze by
maraschino, thoughtful all two. _Buenas noches, señorita. As if they did it of their own accord. His project, as he went on to expound, was
to withdraw from the round of idle pleasures such as form the chief
business of sir Fopling Popinjay and sir Milksop Quidnunc in town and
to devote himself to the noblest task for which our bodily organism has
been framed. Nose whiteflattened against the pane. )_ Play with your eyes shut. And ever shall be. Flood,
gush, flow, joygush, tupthrob. IMPROMPTU


In ferial tone he addressed J. And when I
makes water I makes water. )_

BELLA: _(Screams. Under the sandwichbell lay on a bier of bread one last, one lonely,
last sardine of summer. Goddesses. Heigho! Heigho! Fawcett. Fall, surrender, lost. A little then sufficed, a
jolting car, the mingling odours of the ladies’ cloakroom and lavatory,
the throng penned tight on the old Royal stairs (for they love crushes,
instinct of the herd, and the dark sexsmelling theatre unbridles vice),
even a pricelist of their hosiery. )_ Wait. —You saw his ghost then, says Joe, God between us and harm. I can’t wear them if they are grey. Filthy trip. _(A cigarette appears on the table. Poor
father! With all his faults she loved him still when he sang _Tell me,
Mary, how to woo thee_ or _My love and cottage near Rochelle_ and they
had stewed cockles and lettuce with Lazenby’s salad dressing for supper
and when he sang _The moon hath raised_ with Mr Dignam that died
suddenly and was buried, God have mercy on him, from a stroke. Your reasons, pray?

—I fancy, Stephen said as he ate, it did not exist in or out of the
Mabinogion. —He’s a cultured allroundman, Bloom is, he said seriously. Stap my vitals, said he, them was
always the sentiments of honest Frank Costello which I was bred up most
particular to honour thy father and thy mother that had the best hand
to a rolypoly or a hasty pudding as you ever see what I always looks
back on with a loving heart. To smell the gentle smoke of tea, fume of the pan, sizzling
butter. And he was telling us there’s two fellows waiting below to pull his
heels down when he gets the drop and choke him properly and then they
chop up the rope after and sell the bits for a few bob a skull. It was
now for more than the middle span of our allotted years that he had
passed through the thousand vicissitudes of existence and, being of a
wary ascendancy and self a man of rare forecast, he had enjoined his
heart to repress all motions of a rising choler and, by intercepting
them with the readiest precaution, foster within his breast that
plenitude of sufferance which base minds jeer at, rash judgers scorn
and all find tolerable and but tolerable. Can’t bring back time. Owen Caniculus and S. Or bury at sea. Keep me going. The priest took a stick with a knob at the end of it out of the boy’s
bucket and shook it over the coffin. Caress. Coincidence. But you must never tell. *    *    *


Katey and Boody Dedalus shoved in the door of the closesteaming
kitchen. The boys sixeyed Father Conmee and laughed:

—O, sir. Yes. For the hoi polloi. P. Who now exactly gave them he wondered or where was or did
he buy. The first newsboy came pattering down the stairs at their heels and
rushed out into the street, yelling:

—Racing special!

Dublin. Decent fellow Joe when he
has it but sure like that he never has it. Chaps that would go to the dogs if some woman
didn’t take them in hand. Madden, T. Rush your order and you
play a slick ace. And Prosper Loré’s huguenot name. I know not what to offer your lordships. Brothers-in-law: relations. On. _Natürlich_, put there for
you. Never in all his life had Richie Goulding. Davy Byrne smiledyawnednodded all in one:

—Iiiiiichaaaaaaach!

—There was one woman, Nosey Flynn said, hid herself in a clock to find
out what they do be doing. One life is
all. —Come here, Tommy, his sister called imperatively. He slid his chalice brisk away, grasped his change. And there’s the man now that’ll
tell you all about it, Martin Cunningham. —Those are nice things, says the citizen, coming over here to Ireland
filling the country with bugs. Ask me, sir, Comyn said. Come what might she would be
wild, untrammelled, free. To the right. Poor old professor Goodwin. You are cautioned. I
needn’t tell you. _Begob, ma’am,_ says Mrs Cahill, _God
send you don’t make them in the one pot. Not all there, in fact. On the curbstone before Jimmy Geary, the sexton’s, an old tramp sat,
grumbling, emptying the dirt and stones out of his huge dustbrown
yawning boot. I have a letter here for the press. Grizzled moustache. —He’ll get that advertisement, the professor said, staring through his
blackrimmed spectacles over the crossblind. Hm. Next item on the programme. Occult pimander of Hermes
Trismegistos. _Sweeeet song_. _Non serviam!_

FLORRY: Give him some cold water. —You should see him, he said, when his body loses its balance. The jarvey joins in the mute pantomimic merriment nodding from the
farther seat. She is
coated with quite a considerable layer of fat. Russell). Lucy and S. Outside a shuttered pub a bunch of loiterers
listen to a tale which their brokensnouted gaffer rasps out with
raucous humour. Who has the organ here I wonder? Old Glynn he knew how to make
that instrument talk, the _vibrato_: fifty pounds a year they say he
had in Gardiner street. O,
that’s nyumnyum. She poured again a measureful and a
tilly. )_ No more blow hot and cold. )_ The weather has been so warm. That young doctor O’Hare I noticed her
brushing his coat. His legal knowledge was great
Our judges tell us. Equanimity?

As as natural as any and every natural act of a nature expressed or
understood executed in natured nature by natural creatures in
accordance with his, her and their natured natures, of dissimilar
similarity. —John O’Connell, Mr Power said pleased. Is
Katharine the shrew illfavoured? Hortensio calls her young and
beautiful. Long day I’ve had. Lenehan round the
sandwichbell wound his round body round. He
doesn’t know who is here nor care. He slid in a disk for himself: and watched it shoot, wobble, ogle,
stop: four. SECOND WATCH: _(Points to the corner. Shaky on his pins, poor old
sot. The dour recluse still there (he has his cake) and the douce youngling,
minion of pleasure, Phedo’s toyable fair hair. —It’s as uncertain as a child’s bottom, he said. Begin to get ready. I never saw such a stupid pussens as the pussens. BELLO: _(Gaily. I’ll take my oath that’s Alf Bergan or Richie Goulding. Generous to a fault of course, temperamental, no economising or any
idea of the sort, always snapping at the bone for the shadow. The halldoor turned gradually on its hinges. )

THE MOTH:

     I’m a tiny tiny thing
     Ever flying in the spring
     Round and round a ringaring. Your
eyes are as vapid as the glasseyes of your stuffed fox. Whereat he handed round to the company a set of pasteboard cards
which he had had printed that day at Mr Quinnell’s bearing a legend
printed in fair italics: _Mr Malachi Mulligan. —It’s all right now, Martin Cunningham said. His ideas for ads like Plumtree’s
potted under the obituaries, cold meat department. —Bushe? the editor said. You are a necessary
evil. And there were vessels that are wrought by magic
of Mahound out of seasand and the air by a warlock with his breath that
he blases in to them like to bubbles. Whistle brings rain
they say. )_ Where is he?

BELLA: Do you want me to call the police?

BLOOM: O, I know. )_

LONG JOHN FANNING: _(Scowls and calls with rich rolling utterance. His hand accepted the moist tender gland and slid it into a sidepocket. M. _(The portly figure of John O’Connell, caretaker, stands forth, holding
a bunch of keys tied with crape. Surely, there ought to be. Dunsink time. Did I not take it up?

His hand groped vainly in his pockets. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. That night she met. And then there came out upon the air the sound of voices and the
pealing anthem of the organ. His submission is that he is of Mongolian
extraction and irresponsible for his actions. BLOOM: _(Feeling his occiput dubiously with the unparalleled
embarrassment of a harassed pedlar gauging the symmetry of her peeled
pears. The froeken, _bonne à
tout faire_, who rubs male nakedness in the bath at Upsala. How do
you? Doesn’t see. Where’s Punch? All serene. Where? Between two roaring worlds where they swirl, I. Looking back now in a
retrospective kind of arrangement all seemed a kind of dream. J. Kiss. After that, of course. U. Albert Edward, Arthur
Edmund, Alphonsus Eb Ed El Esquire. You must take
the will for the deed. His slow feet walked him riverward, reading. Girl’s face stained with dirt
and tears, holding the woman’s arm, looking up at her for a sign to
cry. _Northern Whig, Cork Examiner,
Enniscorthy Guardian,_ 1903. I pass. L. Gas: then
solid: then world: then cold: then dead shell drifting around, frozen
rock, like that pineapple rock. The lane is safer. I only thought
the half of the. , passed
Micky Anderson’s all times ticking watches and Henry and James’s wax
smartsuited freshcheeked models, the gentleman Henry, _dernier cri_
James. And pray for us. Coarse red: fun for drunkards: guffaw and smoke. eightyfive thousand. gutenberg. Ah, what M’Guckin! Yes. ONLY ONCE MORE THAT SOAP


He went down the house staircase. No sir smile neighbour shall covet his ox or his wife or his
manservant or his maidservant or his jackass. She poured in a teacup tea, then back in the teapot tea. Swiftly rectly creaking rectly rectly he was rectly gone. Pearls. But in leapyear once in four. That will do nicely. But he
said very entirely it was clean contrary to their suppose for he was
the eternal son and ever virgin. Met her once in the park. A. )_ Boys will be boys. In the darkness of the dome they wait,
their pushedback chairs, my obelisk valise, around a board of abandoned
platters. Thank you. )_ This book tells you how to act with
all descriptive particulars. Wonder would he feel it if something was removed. If you give
me a hand a second, sergeant. )_

MASTIANSKY AND CITRON: Belial! Laemlein of Istria, the false Messiah!
Abulafia! Recant!

_(George R Mesias, Bloom’s tailor, appears, a tailor’s goose under his
arm, presenting a bill. BLOOM: _(Solemnly. Women press
forward to touch the hem of Bloom’s robe. A lovely girl, her veil awave
upon the wind upon the headland, wind around her. His hands and face were working
and a tremour went over her. —Beholden to you, Joe, says I. —_Slan leat_, says he. Curtain up. He wrote to me that he was miserable. The blond girl handed him a docket and pencil. It certainly did make her skin so delicate white like wax. Geraghty,
esquire, of 29 Arbour hill in the city of Dublin, Arran quay ward,
gentleman, hereinafter called the purchaser, videlicet, five pounds
avoirdupois of first choice tea at three shillings and no pence per
pound avoirdupois and three stone avoirdupois of sugar, crushed
crystal, at threepence per pound avoirdupois, the said purchaser debtor
to the said vendor of one pound five shillings and sixpence sterling
for value received which amount shall be paid by said purchaser to said
vendor in weekly instalments every seven calendar days of three
shillings and no pence sterling: and the said nonperishable goods shall
not be pawned or pledged or sold or otherwise alienated by the said
purchaser but shall be and remain and be held to be the sole and
exclusive property of the said vendor to be disposed of at his good
will and pleasure until the said amount shall have been duly paid by
the said purchaser to the said vendor in the manner herein set forth as
this day hereby agreed between the said vendor, his heirs, successors,
trustees and assigns of the one part and the said purchaser, his heirs,
successors, trustees and assigns of the other part. All they bachelors then
asked of sir Leopold would he in like case so jeopard her person as
risk life to save life. Wife is oldish. She turned over sleepily that time. What universal binomial denominations would be his as entity and
nonentity?

Assumed by any or known to none. Nice piece of wood in that counter. _(Ragged barefoot newsboys, jogging a wagtail kite, patter past,
yelling. VIRAG: _(Head askew, arches his back and hunched wingshoulders, peers
at the moth out of blear bulged eyes, points a horning claw and
cries. —There’s a van there, Mr Bloom said, but it’s not moving. Innocence. And one shilling threepence change. —The Ship, Buck Mulligan cried. Maunder on for hours, talking to himself
or the other fellow blowing the bellows. —Parnell will never come again, he said. Quite right. Hope she’s over. ) Goim nachez!_ Nice spectacles for your poor
mother!

BLOOM: Mamma!

ELLEN BLOOM: _(In pantomime dame’s stringed mobcap, widow Twankey’s
crinoline and bustle, blouse with muttonleg sleeves buttoned behind,
grey mittens and cameo brooch, her plaited hair in a crispine net,
appears over the staircase banisters, a slanted candlestick in her
hand, and cries out in shrill alarm. But a man who holds so
tightly to what he calls his rights over what he calls his debts will
hold tightly also to what he calls his rights over her whom he calls
his wife. Who ate them? Mourners coming out. As for fay Elizabeth,
otherwise carrotty Bess, the gross virgin who inspired _The Merry Wives
of Windsor_, let some meinherr from Almany grope his life long for
deephid meanings in the depths of the buckbasket. Traces of
elephantiasis have been discovered among his ascendants. Incog Haroun
al Raschid he flits behind the silent lechers and hastens on by the
railings with fleet step of a pard strewing the drag behind him, torn
envelopes drenched in aniseed. Love is the name?

—That’s right, Father Cowley said. Like Cashel Boylo Connoro Coylo Tisdall Maurice
Tisntdall Farrell. Death by misadventure. Up to fifteen or so. Last lap. My will: his will that fronts me. The ree the ra the ree the ra the roo. Technic. When I put my face into it in the basin at Clongowes. Always in front of us. Pride it
was killed him. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Better go. They hark him on. )_

THE YEWS: _(Their leaves whispering. —She’s making for Bullock harbour. Stephen closed his eyes to hear his boots crush crackling wrack and
shells. And for ourselves give us of your best for ifaith we need it. —Start, Palmerston Park!

THE WEARER OF THE CROWN


Under the porch of the general post office shoeblacks called and
polished. She whirls the prize in left circle. He unrolls one parcel and goes to dump the
crubeen softly but holds back and feels the trotter. He turned over the
smudged pages. Two sheets cream vellum paper one reserve two envelopes when I was in
Wisdom Hely’s wise Bloom in Daly’s Henry Flower bought. Free money, free rent, free love and a free lay church in a
free lay state. Dreamy, cloudy,
symbolistic. A VOICE FROM THE GALLERY:

     Moses, Moses, king of the jews,
     Wiped his arse in the _Daily News_. And he that had erst challenged to be so doughty waxed wan as
they might all mark and shrank together and his pitch that was before
so haught uplift was now of a sudden quite plucked down and his heart
shook within the cage of his breast as he tasted the rumour of that
storm. )_

THE QUOITS: Jigjag. Her ear too is a shell, the peeping lobe there. (Bantam) Lyons had rapidly and successively
requested, perused and restituted the copy of the current issue of the
_Freeman’s Journal_ and _National Press_ which he had been about to
throw away (subsequently thrown away), he had proceeded towards the
oriental edifice of the Turkish and Warm Baths, 11 Leinster street,
with the light of inspiration shining in his countenance and bearing in
his arms the secret of the race, graven in the language of prediction. Bella places her foot on the floor. Y. Wet night in the lane. )_ Rope which hanged
the awful rebel. Hope to goodness he won’t keep me here till seven. Wants a
wash too. STEPHEN: How is that? _Le distrait_ or absentminded beggar. Or the inkbottle I suggested with a
false stain of black celluloid. I told her to come after eight. Letters read out for breach of promise. —Would you like the window open a little?

She doubled a slice of bread into her mouth, asking:

—What time is the funeral?

—Eleven, I think, he answered. When
all is said Dumas _fils_ (or is it Dumas _père?)_ is right. —Snapshot, eh? Brief exposure. —Would I trouble you for a glass of fresh water, Mr Byrne? he said. With it an abode of bliss. Heaviness: hot day coming. I mean, whether Hamlet is Shakespeare or James I or Essex. Tastes all different
for him. She loathed that sort of person, the fallen women off the
accommodation walk beside the Dodder that went with the soldiers and
coarse men with no respect for a girl’s honour, degrading the sex and
being taken up to the police station. Wha gev ye thon colt? Pal to pal. Mailboat. Bloom in a torn frockcoat stained with
whitewash, dinged silk hat sideways on his head, a strip of
stickingplaster across his nose, talks inaudibly. His head follows. Blazes Boylan looked in her blouse with more favour, the stalk of the
red flower between his smiling teeth. Could see
her in the bedroom from the hearth unclamping the busk of her stays:
white. Cunning old Scotch hunks. ,_ 20 minims
_Tinct. All possess bachelor’s button
discovered by Rualdus Columbus. We obey them in the grave. Brrfoo! Blew up all her skirts and her boa nearly smothered old
Goodwin. Patey, C. Sensitive plants. F. She serves
me at his beck. They were haggling over money. H. John Henry Menton’s large eyes stared ahead. _ I call on my old friend, Dr Malachi
Mulligan, sex specialist, to give medical testimony on my behalf. THE GREAT GALLAHER


—You can do it, Myles Crawford repeated, clenching his hand in
emphasis. Two shafts of soft daylight fell across the flagged floor
from the high barbacans: and at the meeting of their rays a cloud of
coalsmoke and fumes of fried grease floated, turning. )_ Lemur, who are you? No. We call it black. The adulteress and her paramour brought the Saxon
robbers here. Seems anything but pleased. Some laughed again: mirthless but with meaning. Shut your eyes and see. A white star falls from it,
proclaiming the consummation of all things and second coming of Elijah. This verily is that. )_ Our Mr President, he twig the whole lot and he aint
saying nothing. Cash in hand                       0—4—9
     Commission recd. _(Paddy Dignam listens with visible effort, thinking, his tail
stiffpointed, his ears cocked. He trotted forward and, lifting again his hindleg, pissed
quick short at an unsmelt rock. That fellow ramming a knifeful of cabbage down as if his life depended
on it. We gave shade on languorous
summer days. —After you with the push, Joe, says he, taking out his handkerchief to
swab himself dry. I’m tired to move. Whom were you trying to walk like? Forget: a
dispossessed. STEPHEN: _(Delightedly. Huggard, started in pursuit. Catch them once with
their pants down. I have a lovely pair with a hair
stripe, grey. Because I’m away from. He would never have spoken
with the Eternal amid lightnings on Sinai’s mountaintop nor ever have
come down with the light of inspiration shining in his countenance and
bearing in his arms the tables of the law, graven in the language of
the outlaw. He conjured up
the scene before them. [ 10 ]


The superior, the very reverend John Conmee S. And calling himself a Frenchy for the
shawls, Joseph Manuo, and talking against the Catholic religion, and he
serving mass in Adam and Eve’s when he was young with his eyes shut,
who wrote the new testament, and the old testament, and hugging and
smugging. All meantime were loudly lamenting the falling off in Irish shipping,
coastwise and foreign as well, which was all part and parcel of the
same thing. It’s in the dogma. The earth. The end. Constable, take his regimental number. Chips. Wonder if it’s bad to go with them then. —She was taken bad on the Tuesday. Back to the world again. )_

BLOOM: _Aurora borealis_ or a steel foundry? Ah, the brigade, of
course. )_ O, this is too monotonous! Nothing. He sighed aside:

—Ah me! O my!

He greeted Mr Dedalus and got a nod. Naturally then it would prey on his mind as
a born leader of men which undoubtedly he was and a commanding figure,
a sixfooter or at any rate five feet ten or eleven in his stockinged
feet, whereas Messrs So and So who, though they weren’t even a patch on
the former man, ruled the roost after their redeeming features were
very few and far between. He’s going to say a word to long John to get
him to take those two men off. —The Greek! he said again. —After all, he said, it’s the most natural thing in the world. I’ll just run out and ask him. I was with him one day and he
bought a book from an old one in Liffey street for two bob. One of her sisterhood lugged me squealing into life. _(He hangs his hat smartly on a peg of Bloom’s antlered head. It was
then queried whether there were any special desires on the part of the
defunct and the reply was: _We greet you, friends of earth, who are
still in the body. This feast of pure reason. )_

THE BOOTS: _(Jogging, mocks them with thumb and wriggling
wormfingers. But I know it’s whitey yellow. I’ll try this one now. Never forget that night. —Said the ace of spades was walking up the stairs. Must get glasses. _(Kitty, disconcerted, coats her teeth with the silver paper. Why don’t you trust me more? What have you up
your nose against me? Is it Haines? If he makes any noise here I’ll
bring down Seymour and we’ll give him a ragging worse than they gave
Clive Kempthorpe. _ Mutton dressed as lamb. Bloom (Pubb. Mr Power stepped in
after him, curving his height with care. ZOE: _(Spouts walrus smoke through her nostrils. A sackshouldered ragman bars his path. BELLO: _(Gives a rap with his gavel. —Something for you, the professor explained to Myles Crawford. Blazing face: redhot. Sauntering sadly, gold no more, she twisted twined a
hair. Then she mightn’t
like it. P. I mean, we have the plays. Well, aren’t they? See her as she is spoil
all. He lies prone, his
face to the sky, his hat rolling to the wall. —Come along with me to the subsheriff’s office, he said. Whose
smile upon each feature plays with such and such replete. The carriage turned again its stiff wheels and their trunks swayed
gently.